Alabama Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Section 504
Americans with Disabilities ACT (ADA)

Covered Employers
In situations not involving an imminent threat, an adult accompanying someone who uses sign
requests this, (b) the accompanying adult agrees, and (c) reliance on the accompanying adult is
b. Include the location and name of the organization or office that is accused of

Covered Employees
The purpose of this policy is to provide child welfare staff with policies and procedures for
County staff must document in FACTS narrative when a reasonable modification or auxiliary aid
staff, volunteers, interns, contractors, grantees, agents and providers of services will make

What Should Employers Do?
1. Complaint Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) for qualified individuals with
In accordance with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (“Section
• Shall ensure that no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such disability, be

Training Requirements
c. Provides technical assistance, training and counseling to managers, supervisors,

Training Deadlines
the operation of an individual organ within a body system.

Qualified Trainers
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) for qualified individuals with
reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals receiving and participating in services and

Special Requirements
• Will not place a surcharge on a particular qualified individual with a disability or any group of
major bodily function, including but not limited to: functions of the immune system, special
specific learning disabilities.

Coverage Election
electronic formats or other similar tools. Under the ADA, DHR must give primary
Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
either the state agency or the federal agency.
State Department and local County Departments in activities involving Civil Rights and Equal

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
auxiliary aids or program accessibility, that are required to provide nondiscriminatory treatment
required by Title II of the ADA and Section 504;
County staff must document in FACTS narrative when a reasonable modification or auxiliary aid
or service is requested or provided to a person with a disability. The client’s record must reflect

Employer Notification Requirements
Child welfare staff may ask for information necessary to determine whether an applicant or
a. Keep the medical records and other health information of applicants and participants in
captioning, text telephones, videophones, large print information, Braille, audible or

Posting Requirements
Children Services) Notice of Discrimination Complaint Form or any other form of writing.
issues. Each county office must display the current Civil Rights / Nondiscrimination poster provided by

Recordkeeping Requirements
III. Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
or more of the “major life activities” of such individual, a record of such an impairment, or being
impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, a record of such

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Disability - Disability is defined as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
Qualified Individual with a Disability- Title II of the ADA defines a “qualified individual with a
Mental Impairment- Title II of ADA defines mental impairment as any mental or psychological
disabilities. Although reasonable accommodations is not defined under ADA, it should be

Sources
https://dhr.alabama.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/Americans-with-Disabilities-Act-ADA-Section-504-and-Reasonable-Modification-Policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:17:32
Original content length: 17,367 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
