Arizona Harassment Training

Overview
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
employee who receives disciplinary action from an employer that includes:

Covered Employers
All employers shall provide the following:
on relevant professional employment organizations and associations.
employee who receives disciplinary action from an employer that includes:

Covered Employees
START\_STATUTE23-206.Employee training requirements
1.  New employee training that
2.  Current employee training on any

What Should Employers Do?
START\_STATUTE23-206.Employee training requirements
All employers shall provide the following:
on any skills training required to properly perform all job duties.
shall be permitted to inspect places of employment, question employees and

Training Requirements
| REFERENCE TITLE: employment; training; termination; conditions; discrimination |
START\_STATUTE23-206.Employee training requirements
1.  New employee training that

Training Deadlines
representative shall inspect at least every six months any operation that mixes
copy of the recorded oral statement within a reasonable time.
written statement within a reasonable time.

Qualified Trainers
contained in This article shall be interpreted to does not require that the less qualified be preferred over the
better qualified simply because of race, color, religion, sex,gender, gender identity or

Special Requirements
by specific authorization by the director.
writing, set forth with reasonable particularity the grounds for the notice and
special answers to all questions required by the commission under its rules.

Coverage Election
standards, employment tests or other selection criteria, including those based
unless the standard, test or other selection criteria, as used by the covered

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
| State of Arizona House of Representatives Fifty-fourth Legislature First Regular Session 2019 |
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
on any skills training required to properly perform all job duties.
employee is not required to appear at any deposition, trial or hearing
special answers to all questions required by the commission under its rules.
prescription medicines required to treat an injured employee under this

Employer Notification Requirements
D.  Notice of an intended inspection shall not be
information and facts developed by the commission, the director or any employee
or investigation has been closed or a citation has been issued.  Such The information and facts shall are not be

Posting Requirements
D.  Notice of an intended inspection shall not be
investigation by giving notice to the director or the director's authorized
representative of the violation or danger.  Any notice shall be in

Recordkeeping Requirements
are public records subject to inspection pursuant to title 39, chapter 1,
2.  Conduct an audio recording of an oral statement
copy of the recorded oral statement within a reasonable time.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
1.  At least Four violations of the
conference; prohibitions; employee initiation of investigation; violation;
believes that a violation of a safety or health standard or regulation exists
representative of the violation or danger.  Any notice shall be in

Sources
https://www.azleg.gov/legtext/54leg/1r/bills/hb2156p.htm

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:22:52
Original content length: 49,869 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
