Arkansas Bereavement Leave

Overview
certificate from a Christian Science practitioner listed in The Christian
leave is a violation of this policy, and is subject to disciplinary action.

Covered Employers
annual leave requests of more than two work weeks (ten (10) business days).
request for leave form within one business day of learning that
facility. The injured employee should call the Company Nurse Injury Hotline. If

Covered Employees
https://www.transform.ar.gov/personnel/resources/policy/
Please refer to Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Policy # 37.
imposed under DHS Policy 1084, Employee Discipline.

What Should Employers Do?
All leave must be taken in 15 minute increments (0.25 hours) and entered into EASE
(1) The supervisor must approve the leave request before the leave may be taken.
(3) The employee’s Division Director, Office Chief, or designee must approve
absence shall be given as soon as possible on the first day of absence to the

Training Requirements
(A) Annual Training Duty
of the military reserves for training of not less than three consecutive months,
(2) Whether leave is for fifteen (15) working days for annual training, active

Training Deadlines
annual leave requests of more than two work weeks (ten (10) business days).
may be used for employment interviews within or outside of DHS.
(2) Leave Requests for sick leave must be submitted within two working days or

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
duty for military service, active duty for specialized training, and/or active
hours shall be paid overtime compensation for any additional overtime

Coverage Election
(3) Whether or not the employee has elected to use accrued annual leave or

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
in connection with any other state employment.
court appearances as required by state law (Ark. Code Ann. § 21-4-213).

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
All leave must be taken in 15 minute increments (0.25 hours) and entered into EASE
(1) The supervisor must approve the leave request before the leave may be taken.
(3) The employee’s Division Director, Office Chief, or designee must approve
(2) Leave Requests for sick leave must be submitted within two working days or

Employer Notification Requirements
sickness makes it impossible to apply for leave in advance, notification of
notification of sickness prior to the start of the workday to prevent disruption
(a) will need to notify his or her supervisor of the jury duty and submit a

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
furnish a note and the supervisor’s request is based on documented abuse of
(D) Record Keeping for Military Leave
When an individual is called to active military service, personnel records shall

Penalties for Non-Compliance
(2) Unauthorized leave is a violation of the leave policy and sanctions may be
leave is a violation of this policy, and is subject to disciplinary action.
(1) A holiday is defined as a "day." For example, employees on a compressed

Sources
https://humanservices.arkansas.gov/wp-content/uploads/DHS-Policy-1007.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:25:59
Original content length: 15,623 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
