Colorado Final Pay / Vacation Payout

Overview
303-318-8441 | www.ColoradoLaborLaw.gov | www.LeyesLaboralesDeColorado.gov
or based on their custom or practice. Employers who do offer paid vacation may set key terms, including —

Covered Employers
● Employers are not required to offer paid vacation, but (as with other wages) may do so in writing, verbally,
or based on their custom or practice. Employers who do offer paid vacation may set key terms, including —
(1) caused by a full or partial shutdown of employer operations; and

Covered Employees
○ how employees must be paid all earned “vacation pay” when a job ends (“separation of employment”),
○ whether there is a “cap,” or maximum, on the amount of paid vacation that employees can save up.1
○ Under the Wage Act, once employees earn wages, their right to payment is guaranteed, regardless of

What Should Employers Do?
○ how employees must be paid all earned “vacation pay” when a job ends (“separation of employment”),
Requirement To Pay Earned Vacation When Employment Ends
● Employers are not required to offer paid vacation, but (as with other wages) may do so in writing, verbally,
○ Like other wages, unused vacation must be paid when employees separate from employment, whether

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
(2) planned and genuinely expected to be not longer than 30 days (or, if a government (state or
to resume production in less than 30 days. Due to unforeseen circumstances, the shutdown lasts more
than 30 days. Company A then is required to pay earned vacation pay to its laid-off employees.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
4 See Hartstein v. Hyatt Corp., 82 F.4th 825, 828–32 (9th Cir. 2023) (“a temporary layoff with no specific return date within
choose at their discretion. Instead, each form is usable only for specific qualifying events — which an
additional paid “sick days” to provide the earned (accrued) paid sick leave required by HFWA, existing

Coverage Election
to payment of final wages upon separation); Nieto v. Clark’s Market, Inc., 488 P.2d at 1143 (“[W]hen an employer chooses
● “Vacation pay” is any paid leave usable for any purpose the employee chooses, at their discretion — unlike

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
(2) planned and genuinely expected to be not longer than 30 days (or, if a government (state or
the normal pay period is a discharge” under a state statute “requiring the immediate payment of accrued wages”).

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
○ how employees must be paid all earned “vacation pay” when a job ends (“separation of employment”),
● Employers are not required to offer paid vacation, but (as with other wages) may do so in writing, verbally,
○ Like other wages, unused vacation must be paid when employees separate from employment, whether
federal) emergency declaration required the shutdown, the duration of the declared emergency).4

Employer Notification Requirements
Interpretive Notice & Formal Opinion (“INFO”) #3E:
they are fired with or without cause, resign with or without notice, or separate for another reason.3
2 Nieto v. Clark’s Market, Inc., 488 P.2d 1140, 1143, 1149 (Colo. 2021) (agreement that firing, or resignation without notice,

Posting Requirements
Interpretive Notice & Formal Opinion (“INFO”) #3E:
they are fired with or without cause, resign with or without notice, or separate for another reason.3
2 Nieto v. Clark’s Market, Inc., 488 P.2d 1140, 1143, 1149 (Colo. 2021) (agreement that firing, or resignation without notice,

Recordkeeping Requirements
“determinable” — able to be calculated — whether from a document, a verbal policy, or informal practice.
employees take time off to use their vacation. If so, the employer still must pay, or let employees keep, any

Penalties for Non-Compliance
waive or to modify such employee’s rights in violation of this article shall be void.”).
8 See Statement of Basis, p.2 (PTO qualifies as vacation pay): “The Division has researched how ‘vacation pay’ is defined
● Pay at regular rates. An employer can define vacation pay as any amount of time — hours, days, weeks,
work time, based on their “regular rate” of pay, as defined by the COMPS Order.

Sources
https://cdle.colorado.gov/sites/cdle/files/info_%233e_payment_of_earned_vacation_upon_separation_of_employment_5.29.2024_accessible.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:31:08
Original content length: 20,674 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
