Connecticut Crime Victim / Domestic Violence Leave

Overview
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
The purpose of this General Letter is to describe the leave rights available to employees who are victims

Covered Employers
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
C.G.S. § 54-85b provides: “An employer shall not deprive an employee of employment, penalize or
victim of family violence.” Additionally, C.G.S. § 31-51ss requires employers to allow family violence

Covered Employees
The purpose of this General Letter is to describe the leave rights available to employees who are victims
C.G.S. § 54-85b provides: “An employer shall not deprive an employee of employment, penalize or
threaten or otherwise coerce an employee with respect to employment, because . . . the employee is a

What Should Employers Do?
C.G.S. § 54-85b provides: “An employer shall not deprive an employee of employment, penalize or
victim of family violence.” Additionally, C.G.S. § 31-51ss requires employers to allow family violence
If an employee is a victim of family violence or sexual assault, an employer shall permit the employee
connection with their own medical care or counseling, the time off shall be charged to the employee’s

Training Requirements
Protection or Restraining Order: Protection orders, sometimes called restraining orders, protective
The Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence is available for training and technical assistance

Training Deadlines
Unpaid leave available to an employee under this policy is limited to twelve (12) days during any calendar
regarding the effects of being off the state payroll for more than three (3) or five (5) days in a month.
their employer with notice of their intention to use such leave seven (7) days prior to the date

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
victim of family violence.” Additionally, C.G.S. § 31-51ss requires employers to allow family violence
condition of probation or condition of release particularly in domestic violence, dating violence and
additional guidance around policy in the workplace in response to domestic violence and stalking go

Coverage Election
one of the non-medical reasons listed above, the employee has the option to choose to use personal
leave, vacation accruals and/or compensatory time balances or to choose unpaid leave.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
procedures relating to such leave. It also serves to demonstrate the commitment of state agencies in
regarding the effects of being off the state payroll for more than three (3) or five (5) days in a month.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
unpaid – under this policy, must provide the Human Resources Office of their agency with a signed
Also, at the time the employee requests family violence or sexual assault leave, the employee must
o The employee must be given notice prior to the disclosure of any records relating to the
violence or sexual assault must be recorded in Job Data as ‘Leave of Absence – General Letter

Employer Notification Requirements
victim or to monitor the victim; leaving unwanted items for the victim; posting information or spreading
• Human Resources shall notify the employee and the employee’s manager of the approved leave
o The employee is responsible for notifying the agency that they are taking time under the

Posting Requirements
victim or to monitor the victim; leaving unwanted items for the victim; posting information or spreading
their employer with notice of their intention to use such leave seven (7) days prior to the date
than seven (7) days’ notice.)

Recordkeeping Requirements
provide Human Resources with documentation verifying that the employee is a victim of family violence
or sexual assault. This documentation shall consist of either:
• A police or court record related to the family violence or sexual assault; or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://portal.ct.gov/das/-/media/das/statewide-hr/a---z-listing-task-pdfs/das-general-letter-34.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:35:46
Original content length: 12,900 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
