Connecticut Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
including but not limited to lactation, is prohibited by federal law and the Connecticut Fair
Employment Practices Act (“CFEPA”). See Connecticut General Statutes § 46a-60.

Covered Employers
Questions and Answers for Employers1
hardship to the employer. Policies or practices that violate these protections from discrimination
Employers with three or more employees must comply with the CFEPA. The statute covers

Covered Employees
Discrimination against employees on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, and related conditions,
It is unlawful to terminate or otherwise discriminate against an employee or applicant because of
deny an employee or applicant reasonable accommodations or leave absent a showing of undue

What Should Employers Do?
physical disability, or status as an honorably discharged veteran. Discrimination complaints must
Employers with three or more employees must comply with the CFEPA. The statute covers
There is no length-of-employment requirement before the protections under the CFEPA are
What does the law require?

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
be filed with the CHRO within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination, with limited
requirement. Additionally, an employer should allow an employee at least fifteen (15) days, or

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
requirement. Additionally, an employer should allow an employee at least fifteen (15) days, or
https://www.ct.gov/chro/lib/chro/faq_breastfeeding_joint_10-2-11.pdf. Additionally, the Connecticut Breastfeeding

Coverage Election
place to sit, a surface to place a pump or other pumping equipment, and an outlet for electricity,
An employee may choose to keep any medical diagnosis confidential. An employee need only

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
administers anti-discrimination laws in the State of Connecticut, including the CFEPA.
may expose you to liability under current state or federal law. This document is intended to serve

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
physical disability, or status as an honorably discharged veteran. Discrimination complaints must
Employers with three or more employees must comply with the CFEPA. The statute covers
certification requirement, the employer must provide the employee advance notice of this
rushed to the emergency department, the employee is not required to alert their employer that

Employer Notification Requirements
certification requirement, the employer must provide the employee advance notice of this
they should provide advance notice in accordance with their employer’s policy. (An employer
may not require an employee exercising their right to leave to provide more advance notice than

Posting Requirements
 Time-off to attend pre-natal or post-natal appointments.
certification requirement, the employer must provide the employee advance notice of this
they should provide advance notice in accordance with their employer’s policy. (An employer

Recordkeeping Requirements
be filed with the CHRO within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination, with limited
may expose you to liability under current state or federal law. This document is intended to serve
absence, but only if the employer requests documentation from other employees requesting leave

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://portal.ct.gov/-/media/chro/20190412revisedproposedpregnancyguidancepdf.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:34:05
Original content length: 11,769 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
