Delaware Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy - FINAL 1 | Page
1. Policy Purpose Statement

Covered Employers
work with its contractors and their employers to address issues related to this policy. Elected
employment include, but are not limited to, employer-sponsored: (1) training; (2) services
parties celebrating retirements and birthdays, and company outings).

Covered Employees
The State is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with
employees who are eligible under Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act
This policy applies to eligible Executive Branch Agency employees, unpaid interns, joint

What Should Employers Do?
or when a disability is known or obvious, agencies must engage in the interactive dialogue
privileges of employment. Agencies are not required to remove an essential job function as
who satisfies the requisite skill, experience, education, and other job-related requirements of
specific accommodation would require significant difficulty or expense. This determination,

Training Requirements
employment include, but are not limited to, employer-sponsored: (1) training; (2) services
who satisfies the requisite skill, experience, education, and other job-related requirements of
training provided by regionally/nationally known ADA organizations.

Training Deadlines
parties celebrating retirements and birthdays, and company outings).
or written request as soon as possible, but no later than 10 business days from notification
of the job. The employee has 30 business days to provide the additional documentation.

Qualified Trainers
The State is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with
• Duty to Reasonably Accommodate – Upon request by a qualified individual with a disability

Special Requirements
them. A function can be “essential” if, among other things, the position exists specifically to
if it were assigned to them, or the function is specialized, and the incumbent is hired based
specific accommodation would require significant difficulty or expense. This determination,

Coverage Election
work with its contractors and their employers to address issues related to this policy. Elected
Officials and Judiciary Members may elect to adopt and administer the policy at their offices and

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
1. Policy Purpose Statement
The State is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
or when a disability is known or obvious, agencies must engage in the interactive dialogue
privileges of employment. Agencies are not required to remove an essential job function as
which must be made on a case-by-case basis, considers factors such as the nature and cost
c. An employee must be capable of performing the essential functions of the job, with or

Employer Notification Requirements
• Interactive Process – A flexible, ongoing gathering of information. This approach is used to
communication is key for optimum sharing of information regarding the accommodation.
g. All personnel information regarding an employee’s health and behavioral information is

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
employees, and apprentices, upon meeting the criteria outlined in this document. The State will
major life activities; a record of such impairment; or being regarded as having an impairment.
documentation may be found in relevant functional areas.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://dhr.delaware.gov/policies/documents/ada-policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:37:15
Original content length: 26,240 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
