District of Columbia Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
accountable for the important work of AI Values Alignment, Mayor Bowser established a
them understand how your AI deployment will impact life within DC. An AI Values Alignment

Covered Employers
enjoying reduced accident rates, and local businesses enjoying increased in-store traffic as their
government is not in the business of conducting Turing Tests—we have no interest in tricking a
support an entirely separate line of business targeting the patients?

Covered Employees
may have with residents, visitors, and workers. As part of its own product development, your
without its first having been reviewed and approved by agency staff, and explain how you plan
• Have you considered whether the deployment will displace existing DC employees?

What Should Employers Do?
used by OCTO in providing the privacy and cybersecurity review and approval required by
must incorporate diverse voices from within your team, analyze complex technological, human,
adjudicatory, or evaluative postures, those risks of potential harm must be carefully governed,
structure their deployment so that human responsibility for the impacts those tools have remains

Training Requirements
preferred mode of instruction. As you describe your AI deployment’s purpose in your AI Values
might obtain from the deployment. For example, will use of the AI tool provide valuable, crowdsourced model training for the vendor? Will deployment lead to the creation of a new and
of values alignment drift. If internal means are available to your agency to course correct on

Training Deadlines
must incorporate diverse voices from within your team, analyze complex technological, human,
them understand how your AI deployment will impact life within DC. An AI Values Alignment
If any of your intended use cases are not included within the vendor’s own proffered use cases

Qualified Trainers
available benefits by qualified applicants? Is the AI tool intended to smooth traffic congestion
to improve uptake in available benefits by qualified applicants, do you expect overall increases

Special Requirements
AI Values. Organized hierarchically under these Key Concepts, this Handbook identifies specific
agency mission. Your answers to the Privacy and Cybersecurity questions, in particular, will be
will be a necessary supporting document for any AI tool your agency deploys. Additionally,

Coverage Election
selected the current AI tool or type of tool as the most appropriate. Please note that this question
choose winners and losers in these competitions. However, to help make sure everyone receives

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
strategies. Big, categorical statements will be less valuable to the AI Values Alignment Advisory
Group than specific, concrete statements.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
used by OCTO in providing the privacy and cybersecurity review and approval required by
must incorporate diverse voices from within your team, analyze complex technological, human,
adjudicatory, or evaluative postures, those risks of potential harm must be carefully governed,
structure their deployment so that human responsibility for the impacts those tools have remains

Employer Notification Requirements
who interact with your AI tool some notice of the identified risks of direct physical harm.
Explain any plan your agency has to provide such notice as part of your deployment. If you do
not believe it is appropriate to include such affirmative notice of risks of direct physical harm as

Posting Requirements
Describe the impacts you expect to see post-deployment. For example, if the AI tool is intended
adjudicatory, or evaluative postures, those risks of potential harm must be carefully governed,
who interact with your AI tool some notice of the identified risks of direct physical harm.

Recordkeeping Requirements
documents your agency’s meaningful AI Values Alignment work for each AI tool you deploy. A
will be a necessary supporting document for any AI tool your agency deploys. Additionally,
Values Alignment Report will serve as the most important record of your agency’s efforts to

Penalties for Non-Compliance
violations, misapplications of policy?
important tool in finetuning the implementation and operation of your proposed AI deployment.
routinely prosecute their violation as deceptive or unfair trade practices. While parties are free to

Sources
https://techplan.dc.gov/sites/default/files/dc/sites/itstrategicplan/publication/attachments/handbook_for_a.i._values_alignment.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 19:00:59
Original content length: 76,899 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
