Florida Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
Act, for example, is currently the most protective law on the
Union), in fact, successfully settled with a facial recognition

Covered Employers
frontier of problems that accompany the inexorable expansion of
company, Clearview AI, for violating the rights of Illinois
residents, and the company must now offer residents an opt-out

Covered Employees
linked to the workplace's--to the worker's workplace identity
burden on security personnel to memorize faces.
what non-federal systems are being used by their employees. In

What Should Employers Do?
residents, and the company must now offer residents an opt-out
and the company must now offer residents an opt-out mechanism.
However, we must also balance that awareness against the
much envious of the car that you must be driving, so--with all

Training Requirements
fact, during the course of our work, multiple agencies had to
the course of the recent work that we've done, and I'm not

Training Deadlines
for Privacy and Consumer Protection in the early days of facial
California State Legislature during the early days of facial
prevalence of facial recognition technology within Federal

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
particularly non-White, female, and young faces. These
has gone into closing these gaps, particularly at the National
years, much work has gone into closing these gaps, particularly

Coverage Election
assessments is essential for organizations to select effective
voluntary tool developed in collaboration with stakeholders

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Statement by Representative Bill Foster, Chairman, Subcommittee
Written Statement............................................ 10

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
residents, and the company must now offer residents an opt-out
and the company must now offer residents an opt-out mechanism.
However, we must also balance that awareness against the
much envious of the car that you must be driving, so--with all

Employer Notification Requirements
Dr. Charles H. Romine, Director, Information Technology
The Subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 11 a.m., via
are constantly opting in to lend our biometric information to

Posting Requirements
The Subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 11 a.m., via
security checkpoints. However, CBP's privacy notices to inform
Because when I post a picture of myself on Facebook, and one of

Recordkeeping Requirements
about the conduct of the hearing. First, Members should keep
keep your microphones muted, unless you're speaking. Finally,
if Members have documents that they wish to submit for the

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Once confined to the world of science fiction, biometric
measured; define methods for assessing the quality of
testimony you were talking about privacy violations that can
that's a privacy violation, you know, I didn't intend for you

Sources
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-117hhrg47841/html/CHRG-117hhrg47841.htm

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:41:18
Original content length: 99,990 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
