Georgia Overtime & Hours

Overview
(USDOL) of a final rule on Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime regulations on April
to the FLSA overtime provisions, it does not in any way impact state compensatory time.

Covered Employers
23, 2024. The final rule becomes effective July 1, 2024, meaning employers have a little
and compensation levels needed for white collar employees to be classified as FLSAexempt. The FLSA requires employers with more than 50 employees to pay a minimum
2. The final rule does not make any changes to the treatment of bonuses. Employers may

Covered Employees
and compensation levels needed for white collar employees to be classified as FLSAexempt. The FLSA requires employers with more than 50 employees to pay a minimum
employee’s regular rate for hours worked over 40 in a workweek. The FLSA provides
sales, and highly compensated employees, as well as certain employees in computerrelated jobs. For the EAP exemptions (executive, administrative, and professional) to

What Should Employers Do?
and compensation levels needed for white collar employees to be classified as FLSAexempt. The FLSA requires employers with more than 50 employees to pay a minimum
exemptions to the overtime requirement for executive, administrative, professional, outside
apply, employees must be paid on a salary basis, meet a salary test of making at least the
minimum salary threshold, and meet certain requirements as to their duties (duties test).

Training Requirements
automated timekeeping. Take steps now to create clear instruction for employees that will

Training Deadlines
1. The current salary threshold of $684 per week, or $35,568 annually, will be increased in
annually. The salary level will then be raised to $1,128 per week, or $58,656 annually,
compensation for HCEs will be $132,964 annually, including at least $844 per week paid

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
employees for this work time. Additionally, consider whether any managers and
change the special provisions applicable to state and local government permitting the use
federal law. FLSA exemption classification decisions are made on an employee-byemployee basis. With limited exceptions, an employee must meet three criteria to be FLSAexempt: the duties test, the minimum salary threshold, and payment on a salary basis.

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
to the FLSA overtime provisions, it does not in any way impact state compensatory time.
For the policy related to state compensatory time, refer to Joint OPB/DOAS Statewide

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
apply, employees must be paid on a salary basis, meet a salary test of making at least the
budgets. Financial liabilities that must be managed within your approved budgets include
nonexempt employees must be tracked, and employees must be compensated for any
whether these employees are required to ask permission to work over 40 hours per

Employer Notification Requirements
If you have questions about the information in this advisory, please contact the HRA

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Many employees previously classified as exempt will now have timekeeping responsibilities
automated timekeeping. Take steps now to create clear instruction for employees that will

Penalties for Non-Compliance
penalties for willful violations can also be assessed. For these reasons, we recommend

Sources
https://doas.ga.gov/sites/default/files/2024-07/FLSA%20Announcement%202024.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:42:15
Original content length: 12,368 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
