Georgia Paid Family / Medical Leave (PFML)

Overview
Family and Medical Leave Act
Q1: What is the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)?

Covered Employers
A. No. Only those hours actually worked for the employer are counted toward the
responsibility of the employee is to give the employer enough information for the
employer to know that the leave may be covered by the FMLA. At that point, it is

Covered Employees
employees with the right to an unpaid leave of absence for up to 12 workweeks
within a 12-month period to assist eligible employees with balancing work/life
Q2: Which employees are eligible to take FMLA leave?

What Should Employers Do?
toward meeting the eligibility requirements. Such employment includes fulltime, part-time, temporary, seasonal, and sporadic employment, whether paid
The 12 months of employment are not required to be consecutive in order for
service is due to an employee's fulfillment of military obligations.
1,250-hour requirement?

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
within a 12-month period to assist eligible employees with balancing work/life
• have been employed by the State of Georgia for a total of at least 12 months,
• have worked at least 1,250 hours for the State of Georgia in the 12 months

Qualified Trainers
• when such is certified as medically necessary for a serious health condition of
• when certified as medically necessary to care for a covered service member’s

Special Requirements
Q6: Do employees have to specifically request FMLA leave in order to be
A: No. Employees seeking FMLA leave need not specifically ask for it. The
Additionally, if the amount of leave needed is known, an employer must inform an

Coverage Election
State employers can choose to allow their eligible employees to use FMLA
instances, the employer may elect to assign the employee to a temporary

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
• have been employed by the State of Georgia for a total of at least 12 months,
• have worked at least 1,250 hours for the State of Georgia in the 12 months

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
The 12 months of employment are not required to be consecutive in order for
service is due to an employee's fulfillment of military obligations.
foster care, for preliminary activities required for the placement and during the
responsibility of the employee is to give the employer enough information for the

Employer Notification Requirements
• for any qualifying exigency arising out of deployment or notice of deployment
ends 12 months later. For more information on the 12-month period used during
responsibility of the employee is to give the employer enough information for the

Posting Requirements
• for any qualifying exigency arising out of deployment or notice of deployment
Q9: How soon after an employee provides notice of the need for leave must an
Along with the eligibility notice, the employer provides a notice of FMLA rights

Recordkeeping Requirements
Military FMLA leave, please see question 9 of the DOAS/HRA document titled
and responsibilities. Both notices can be combined into one document, and a
• the employee’s right to maintain benefits, any requirement for the

Penalties for Non-Compliance
health condition (defined as noted above); or
to the level of a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities
child must (1) have a disability as defined by the ADA; (2) be incapable of selfcare due to that disability; (3) have a serious health condition; and (4) be in need

Sources
https://doas.ga.gov/assets/Human%20Resources%20Administration/FMLA/FMLA%20FAQs%20-%20revised%20April%202022.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:42:25
Original content length: 34,426 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
