Georgia Bereavement Leave

Overview
governing employee paid and unpaid leave, as well as all applicable state and federal law
3. Active, salaried, non-temporary employees who are rehired retirees of the

Covered Employers
business needs and the timeliness of the requests in approving annual leave.
or outside business activity;

Covered Employees
concerning work absences and provides an appropriate manner in which employees
Personnel Board (“SPB”) Rules and Regulations (Rules 478-1-.16, 17, 19 and 23)
governing employee paid and unpaid leave, as well as all applicable state and federal law

What Should Employers Do?
This policy sets forth the Department’s guidelines, expectations, and requirements
It shall be the policy of the Georgia Department of Public Safety to adhere to State
regarding leave. In accordance with these guidelines supervisors shall insure that
adequate staffing shall be maintained.

Training Requirements
3. Cadets (not in Trooper School or Basic Mandate training), Dispatchers and
training, Dispatchers and Weight Inspectors) are granted Saturday and Sunday as
H. Education Support Leave (See SPB Rule 478-1-.16(18))

Training Deadlines
leave (for Classified employees after five consecutive workdays after all such leave is
Q. An employee who is absent from duty for three consecutive workdays (five
consecutive workdays for Classified employees) without proper authorization, within

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
L. Failure to obtain approval for additional time off beyond the expiration of an approved
exception is for employees retiring from State employment whose compensation will
1. The specific reason and justification provided for the request;

Coverage Election
inform employees that Personal Leave elections may be made at that time
federal, state, and local elections. Non-temporary, salaried employees may be

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
It shall be the policy of the Georgia Department of Public Safety to adhere to State
governing employee paid and unpaid leave, as well as all applicable state and federal law

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
E. Employees are required to use deferred holiday time before using annual leave,
J. Employees on leave with an uncertain end date are required to provide periodic
approved absence. If an extension is desired, the employee must request it in writing
required to supply an appropriate medical release or certification that the employee is

Employer Notification Requirements
c. An employee should give notice of his/her intent to take annual leave as
early as possible. Employees who take annual leave without notice or call in
D. Although in rare instances it may be necessary for a relative to notify the employee’s

Posting Requirements
leave with the Post or their supervisor a telephone number where they may be
C. Post/Station Commanders shall be the approving authority for all employees under
their supervision; Lieutenants shall be approving authority for Post/Station

Recordkeeping Requirements
adequate staffing shall be maintained.
F. A record of leave shall be maintained in the Human Resources Division.
accordance with the DPS Records, Forms, and Reports Policy #13.02.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Excessive or abusive use of sick leave is defined as a pattern of intermittent,

Sources
https://dps.georgia.gov/document/document/509-absence-work-revision-august-11-2023/download

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:43:20
Original content length: 43,234 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
