Hawaii Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
This fact sheet is a general summary of state laws and does not have the force or effect of Hawaiʻi law or administrative rules. If there
are any inconsistencies, the laws and rules will control. (9/2022)

Covered Employers
DANC plea not ultimately resulting in a conviction. Unless an employer has a statutory exemption, a Hawai'i employer
WHEN MAY AN EMPLOYER INQUIRE ABOUT OR CONSIDER A CONVICTION?
allow Hawaiʻi employers and Hawaiʻi employment agencies to engage in limited inquiry or consideration of a current

Covered Employees
employee or applicant’s conviction as follows:
o of a current employee or of an applicant for employment who has already received a conditional offer of

What Should Employers Do?
• Proof that a rational relationship exists between a conviction and a particular job requires a showing that there is an
relationship between a conviction and employment requires the comparison of a particular conviction and its

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
In this case, the employer made a post-offer inquiry into Charles’ conviction record, which occurred within the seven year
six months and was released in March 2004. The employer withdraws the offer of employment.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
HRS § 378-2.5 and HRS §§ 378-3 (8) and (9) provide several exceptions to the arrest and court record protection which
• Pre-offer inquiries into and consideration of applicant’s conviction records are prohibited, with the exceptions
incarceration, is prohibited, with the exceptions discussed in the preceding section above.

Coverage Election
occasionally working the cash register handling electronic transactions, and cash transactions. Charles is given an offer of

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
This fact sheet is a general summary of state laws and does not have the force or effect of Hawaiʻi law or administrative rules. If there
HAWAI‘I STATE LAW PROHIBITS EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Employer Notification Requirements
Under Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (HRS) § 378-1, “Arrest and Court Record” includes any information about an individual

Posting Requirements
In this case, the employer made a post-offer inquiry into Charles’ conviction record, which occurred within the seven year

Recordkeeping Requirements
BECAUSE OF ARREST AND COURT RECORD
WHAT IS AN “ARREST AND COURT RECORD”?
Under Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (HRS) § 378-1, “Arrest and Court Record” includes any information about an individual

Penalties for Non-Compliance
position, so there is no violation of the arrest and court record protection.
Therefore, consideration of the 2003 conviction is a violation of the arrest and court record protection.
This pre-offer inquiry is a violation of the arrest and court record protection. Even if the store can ask the question in

Sources
https://labor.hawaii.gov/hcrc/files/2020/09/Arrest-Court-Record-2022.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:45:42
Original content length: 7,663 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
