Idaho Prevailing Wage Laws (public contracts)

Overview
Contract Administration Labor Compliance 112
112.00 General. The Idaho Transportation Department, as a contracting agency, is responsible to

Covered Employers
organization and must pay the prevailing wage and fringe benefit rates, payroll submissions, compliance
under "Business->, Click for More Topics-> Construction Resources" OR “Inside ITD-> Click for More
o Be independently established in his/her own trucking business

Covered Employees
workers who use tools or who are performing the work of a trade), as distinguished apart from that of
Leased Employees. The prime contractor must consider leased employees as part of its own
 The prime contractor maintains supervisory control over leased employee day-to-day activities.

What Should Employers Do?
Opportunity (EO) requirements.
Any contracts, financed in whole or in part by federal-aid funds, must include the Required Contract
Provisions (FHWA-1273) bound in the signed contract documents. These special provisions also require
 Copeland Act – Making it a Federal crime for anyone to require a laborer or mechanic to

Training Requirements
Prevailing Wage Resource Book provides instructions regarding what information the DOL needs
approved training program. Apprentices and trainees should be paid at the rates in the
applicable approved training program.

Training Deadlines
Administrator predetermined to be the prevailing wage within a given area for a particular construction
within the scope of the classifications listed may be added after award only as provided in the
 The regulations allow the DOL 30 days to respond with a ruling; however, if DOL does not

Qualified Trainers
kickback their wages, and requiring contractors to provide weekly-certified payroll report
 Review certified payrolls. Look for classifications not listed in the WD or approved in advance or

Special Requirements
Provisions (FHWA-1273) bound in the signed contract documents. These special provisions also require
project site established specifically for the performance of the contract, or project, and where
Administrator predetermined to be the prevailing wage within a given area for a particular construction

Coverage Election
 WH-347 form, the optional Payroll and Statement of Compliance form that incorporates the

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
statements, and all other applicable federal requirements provided:
Title 29 CFR 5.2 (l)(1) states "The site of the work is the physical place or places where the building or

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Any contracts, financed in whole or in part by federal-aid funds, must include the Required Contract
Contractor’s responsibility, begins when the truck enters the project limits, and continues until
Leased Employees. The prime contractor must consider leased employees as part of its own
organization and must pay the prevailing wage and fringe benefit rates, payroll submissions, compliance

Employer Notification Requirements
Prevailing Wage Resource Book provides instructions regarding what information the DOL needs
 Inform contractors that all Request for Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate must
immediately upon notification.

Posting Requirements
112.01 Project Posters. A list of bulletin board requirements, including links where current
required posters can be viewed and downloaded can also be obtained on the ITD external website
http://apps.itd.idaho.gov/apps/manuals/ca/Project_Poster_Checklist_Links.pdf

Recordkeeping Requirements
Provisions (FHWA-1273) bound in the signed contract documents. These special provisions also require
 The prime contractor maintains supervisory control over leased employee day-to-day activities.
be submitted on the DOL SF-1444 form, including all necessary supporting documentation. SF

Penalties for Non-Compliance
and fringe benefit rates as established by the U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL). The USDOL defines
 Contractor or subcontractor drivers working on the project site (as defined below in Subsection
that meet the definition of a mechanic or laborer, as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, must
 Address all non-compliance, complaints, and issues.

Sources
https://apps.itd.idaho.gov/apps/manuals/ca/ca112-labor_compliance.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:47:49
Original content length: 33,087 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
