Idaho Pay Frequency & Payday Timing

Overview
Guide to Idaho Labor Laws
GUIDE TO IDAHO LABOR LAWS

Covered Employers
tips combined with the employer’s cash wage must equal
the minimum hourly wage. If it doesn’t, the employer must
make up the difference. It is the employer’s burden to

Covered Employees
Unless specifically exempt, all employees subject to the
A “TIPPED EMPLOYEE” means any employee engaged in an
occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly

What Should Employers Do?
not a substitute for the law. The federal Fair Labor Standards Act can be found at Title 29 United States Code, Chapter 8. State law regarding minimum wage requirements can
legal advice is required, an attorney should be contacted.
provisions of the Idaho Minimum Wage Law must be paid at
tips combined with the employer’s cash wage must equal

Training Requirements
institution of higher education, whether operated for
course of employment; work for independent employers
have not attained the educational level of the 8th

Training Deadlines
per hour during their first 90 consecutive calendar days of
than 500 man-days of farm labor in any calendar
• Rest periods, breaks, lunch breaks, holidays off or vacations

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Unless specifically exempt, all employees subject to the
applies to all Idaho employers unless they meet the specific
Unless specifically exempt under the provisions of the federal law, salaried employees must be paid time and one-half

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The Idaho Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Section is responsible for enforcing the state of Idaho’s wage and hour laws,
which include the state minimum wage and wage payment laws.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
legal advice is required, an attorney should be contacted.
provisions of the Idaho Minimum Wage Law must be paid at
tips combined with the employer’s cash wage must equal
the minimum hourly wage. If it doesn’t, the employer must

Employer Notification Requirements
This guide provides general information about federal and
state labor laws. It is for informational purposes only and is
For information about the Fair Labor Standards Act and the

Posting Requirements
• A discharge notice or a reason for discharge

Recordkeeping Requirements
or transportation; regularly use the mail, telephones or telegraph for interstate communication or keep records of interstate transactions; handle, ship or receive goods moving in
Domestic service workers such as day workers, housekeepers, chauffeurs, cooks or full-time babysitters are covered if
Employee records should be kept for a minimum of three

Penalties for Non-Compliance
The following are examples of exemptions which are illustrative but not all-inclusive. These examples do not define the
sales employees and employees in certain computerrelated occupations as defined in Department of Labor regulations;
1301 through §44-1308. Violations of the Idaho Child Labor

Sources
https://dhr.idaho.gov/wp-content/uploads/EOO/Element2/Guide-to-Idaho-Labor-Laws-English.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:46:56
Original content length: 17,615 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
