Illinois Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
Raven A. DeVaughn, Acting Director
rendered. The Pay Plan may also include other provisions not inconsistent with law to assist in

Covered Employers
b) The Director may limit eligible lists to positions in one or more organizational
b) To cooperate with recognized educational institutions and organizations by
convenience of the employer. Geographical transfers shall be made only with the approval of the

Covered Employees
TITLE 80: PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
SUBTITLE B: PERSONNEL RULES, PAY PLANS, AND
AUTHORITY: Implementing and authorized by the Personnel Code (Ill. Rev. Stat. 1983, ch.

What Should Employers Do?
301.50 Revised Class Requirements
Wherever used in 80 Ill. Adm. Code: Subtitle B, Chapter I, "Director" shall mean the Director of
Central Management Services; and "Department", shall mean the Department of Central
The Director shall maintain, and revise when necessary, a uniform position classification plan for

Training Requirements
Section 302.215 Leave of Absence for Educational Purposes
evaluation of such factors as education, experience, training, capacity, knowledge,
manual fitness, or an evaluation of training and experience. Examinations shall

Training Deadlines
January 1, 1980, for a maximum of 150 days; amended at 4 Ill. Reg. 15, p. 216, effective March
duties of every position within the agency. At the request of an agency, or at the discretion of
a) Within 30 days after receiving notice of such decision, the incumbent in such

Qualified Trainers
be served on the employee in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
change in duties, such employee is qualified for the position.

Special Requirements
class specifications therefor.
c) To provide specialized orientation and training necessary for satisfactory
years or less (exclusive of any additional service imposed pursuant to law). An

Coverage Election
SUBPART B: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION
SUBPART J: VOLUNTARY REDUCTION AND LAYOFFS

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The Director shall prepare and maintain a pay plan for all employees subject to Jurisdiction A of
the administration of good personnel practices for the State of Illinois.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
or responsibilities after his/her appointment to such position shall not be required to be lowered
It is the responsibility of each agency head to report to the Director any significant changes in the
in question. It shall be the responsibility of the head of the agency in which the position is
Section 302.490 Employee Obligations

Employer Notification Requirements
audit, or other investigation, the Department of Central Management Services shall notify the
located to notify the incumbent in said position of the decision of the Department of Central
a) Within 30 days after receiving notice of such decision, the incumbent in such

Posting Requirements
a) Within 30 days after receiving notice of such decision, the incumbent in such
upon the Civil Service Commission notice of appeal of said reconsidered decision
in writing within 15 days after receipt of notice of the reconsidered decision. A

Recordkeeping Requirements
SOURCE: Filed May 29, 1975; emergency amendment at 3 Ill. Reg. 48, p. 188, effective
The Director shall maintain, and revise when necessary, a uniform position classification plan for
at the last address shown in the personnel file. The effective date of the Director's

Penalties for Non-Compliance
continuous service as defined in Section 302.190 under the following conditions:
continuous service as defined in Section 302.190.
layoff is defined as the current, funded, vacant position that management has the present
A certified employee as defined in Section 302.530 who is subject to indeterminate layoff as a

Sources
https://cms.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/cms/personnel/employeeresources/documents/emp-rules.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:49:18
Original content length: 252,586 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
