Indiana Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
to all IIFC operations and activities.
Purpose Statement…………………………………………………………………………………………4

Covered Employers
 Not unduly burdening the ongoing business of the justice system.
or regional criminal organizations whose direct association with terrorism may be
information about individuals or organizations solely on the basis of their religious, political, or

Covered Employees
It is the purpose of this policy to provide Indiana Intelligence Fusion Center personnel with guidelines
The policy is applicable to all personnel working in direct support of the IIFC.
personnel; the receiving, seeking, retention, evaluation, information quality, analysis destruction, sharing, or

What Should Employers Do?
shall provide their contact information (requestor’s name, requestor’s agency, address, and
The IIFC shall provide the following statement to any identification provided to the requestor:
subject to the investigation must be determined through further investigation and
Primary responsibility for the operation of the IIFC, its justice systems, operations, and coordination of

Training Requirements
information in accordance with their training.
processes, and training.
training in the face recognition system and its features.

Training Deadlines
of a human face through the use of biometric algorithms contained within a software application. This
the investigative efforts of law enforcement and public safety agencies both within and outside the State
is making the request based on a valid law enforcement purpose that falls within the

Qualified Trainers
image editing software. They are qualified to assess

Special Requirements
 Minimizing the threat and risk of injury to specific individuals.
social views or activities; their participation in a particular noncriminal organization or lawful event;
specific suspect descriptions for identification purposes.

Coverage Election
safeguards will cover any type of medium (printed or electronic) or technology (e.g., physical servers,
electronic means (such as an official government e-mail address). Non-electronic disseminations will be

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Purpose Statement…………………………………………………………………………………………4
the investigative efforts of law enforcement and public safety agencies both within and outside the State

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
subject to the investigation must be determined through further investigation and
Primary responsibility for the operation of the IIFC, its justice systems, operations, and coordination of
IIFC personnel are required to adhere to the ISE- SAR Functional Standard and state and federal law
obligations when interacting with the public. This means, for example, that constitutional

Employer Notification Requirements
Information………………………………………………………………………………………………….6
Acquiring and Receiving Information………………………………………………………………….8
Use of Face Recognition Information………………………………………………………………….9

Posting Requirements
 Disclosed or published without prior notice to the originating entity that such information is subject to
 Posting such information on the internet.
suitable for display or further image analysis. For

Recordkeeping Requirements
 Lawfully obtained probe images of unknown suspects that have been added to unsolved image files
under the guidelines of the IIFC Privacy Policy of this document.
 When participating on a federal law enforcement task force or when documenting a SAR or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Director. Violations of the privacy policy can be reported to, the Executive Director, Assistant Director
identity and membership in various predefined groups.
criminal acts and violations of the law; identification,
adhere to conditions defined in a formal agreement

Sources
https://www.in.gov/iifc/files/Indiana_Intelligence_Fusion_Center_Face_Recognition_Policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:51:42
Original content length: 73,271 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
