Indiana Jury Duty Leave

Overview
disciplinary action against employees who are members of community volunteer fire
engagement in emergency firefighting activities at the time of employee’s absence from

Covered Employers
personal business and handle emergencies without loss of pay. Balances are limited to 22.5
communication include email, business calendar invitation, text or voice messages.

Covered Employees
State Personnel Department | Leaves and Absences
State Personnel Director.
To provide an overview of types of leave available to employees in state civil service and the

What Should Employers Do?
documentation required for each leave.
emergency call. Additional statutory requirements apply if employee is injured during such
the reasonable amount of time to attend and travel to and from the meeting and requires at
or more require written approval through agency chain of command and agency appointing

Training Requirements
Absence to Attend Certain Meetings for Child’s Education is authorized under IC 22-2-20 and
• Taking courses related to Employee Self Service for the State’s human capital
• Taking courses related to Manager Self Service for the State’s human capital

Training Deadlines
least 5 days’ advance notice. This absence is unpaid unless the employee is using available
inhibited during any unpaid leave of absence of thirty consecutive calendar days or more.
for absences not covered by other leaves. Unpaid leaves of thirty consecutive calendar days

Qualified Trainers
on an established schedule related to length of qualified full- or part-time service and tied to

Special Requirements
emergency call. Additional statutory requirements apply if employee is injured during such
at a particular worksite due to emergency conditions at that worksite adversely affecting
employee for a specific time period during which the worksite was closed and employee

Coverage Election
in governmental entities where the chief executive officer has elected to have the civil service
firefighting duties. Absences are unpaid unless employee chooses to use comp time or

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
State Personnel Department | Leaves and Absences
State Personnel Director.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
documentation required for each leave.
efforts. Details of eligibility are in the policy. A completed form is required for approval.
location. Appointing authorities must request this leave from INSPD Director or designee
for participation in selection or service must be deducted from the employee’s base salary so

Employer Notification Requirements
least 5 days’ advance notice. This absence is unpaid unless the employee is using available
notice by agency management or HR representative that approval has been granted to the
S/LTD runs concurrently with FML for employees eligible for both leaves. Information about

Posting Requirements
least 5 days’ advance notice. This absence is unpaid unless the employee is using available
notice by agency management or HR representative that approval has been granted to the
• Working all scheduled hours or complying with any notice requirements for requesting

Recordkeeping Requirements
documentation required for each leave.
• Providing required documentation for each leave;
• Recording each approved absence accurately in the State’s human capital management

Penalties for Non-Compliance
overtime compensation) as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) or Financial
Management Circular (FMC) 2.4. For employees in exempt positions, as defined by the

Sources
https://www.in.gov/spd/files/leaves-and-absences-policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:51:01
Original content length: 23,824 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
