Indiana Paid Sick Leave

Overview
C. Sick leave shall not accrue to hourly, per diem, temporary, intermittent, contractual
5. A request for sick leave is thought to be in concert with a job action or other form of work

Covered Employers
The cost of verification by an employer-designated physician shall be the responsibility of the

Covered Employees
B. An employee may use sick leave for appointments with any licensed health care provider.
C. Employees who, while on scheduled vacation leave, become sick or injured, shall remain on
vacation leave until the original leave period ends at which time the employee may be placed on

What Should Employers Do?
A. Sick leave is defined in Regulation 3 and shall be administered as outlined in this rule.
Sick leave shall not be taken in less than 15-minute increments.
C. Employees who, while on scheduled vacation leave, become sick or injured, shall remain on
Such requests shall include a completed Employee’s Physician Report and shall then be

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
A. Be granted 90 calendar days for illness or injury incurred outside the line-of-duty and 365
days for illness or injury incurred in the line-of-duty in any calendar year. Such leave shall not
C. Carry over any unused sick days out of the 90 per calendar year, in excess of 84 days

Qualified Trainers
special sick leave for periods of disability as certified by the Employee’s Physician Report.

Special Requirements
B. Accrue an additional sick day each time a "personal leave" day is accrued. Such additional
B. Accrue one additional sick day each time a personal leave day is accrued. The first additional
Section 5-5 Special Sick Leave

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
shall have reinstated accrued sick leave, which was unused at the time of their resignation.
A. A supervisor may require an employee to verify by doctor’s statement, fitness to work or

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
The cost of verification by an employer-designated physician shall be the responsibility of the
2. Employees should provide more than the required notice, whenever possible. Notice

Employer Notification Requirements
shall immediately notify their commanding officer/civilian commander when released by a
2. Employees should provide more than the required notice, whenever possible. Notice
existed, which made it impossible or impractical for the employee to comply with the notice

Posting Requirements
2. Employees should provide more than the required notice, whenever possible. Notice
existed, which made it impossible or impractical for the employee to comply with the notice
2. Proper notice requirements were not met;

Recordkeeping Requirements
however, the inappropriate use of sick leave shall be recorded as unauthorized leave and may
D. Personal leave shall not be recorded or compensated in less than 15-minute increments.
requirements shall be waived upon the submission of documentation that an emergency situation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
A. Sick leave is defined in Regulation 3 and shall be administered as outlined in this rule.

Sources
https://www.in.gov/isp/files/c_sick-and-personal-leave.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:50:25
Original content length: 7,905 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
