Indiana Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
NOTE ON JUDGING BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL LAW LITIGATION 5
4. UNIFORM TRADE SECRETS ACT 33

Covered Employers
NOTE ON JUDGING BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL LAW LITIGATION 5
CHAPTER 3: THE UNIFORM BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ACT (I.E., THE “BUSINESS HARMONIZATION ACT”) 67

Covered Employees
compilation of the treatise was Indiana Office of Court Services Staff Attorney Amanda Wishin, and
A member, a manager, an agent, or an employee of a limited liability company is not
of any other member, manager, agent, or employee of the limited liability company.

What Should Employers Do?
liability for the debts and obligations of an Indiana corporation. Spencer Aronson received a
the debts and obligations of a corporation because Aronson had established grounds for “piercing
personally liable for the debts, obligations, or liabilities of the limited liability
“circumvent[ed]” if a claimant satisfied the common law requirements for piercing set forth in

Training Requirements
1. TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDERS 88
legitimate objective could have been achieved through an alternative course of
been achieved through an alternative course of action less harmful to the minority's interest.’” Murdock,

Training Deadlines
duty or fraud claims within the appraisal proceeding.” Id. at 1057. This could be accomplished, the
determined by reviewing the language contained within the ‘four corners’ of that written
employment, he would not practice medicine within 25 miles of the clinic for two years following

Qualified Trainers
defendant, a certified public accountant, to pay at least twice, and up to three
The court should determine whether an action should be certified as a class action at the earliest

Special Requirements
Heather A. Welch of Marion County. Additionally, Judge Steven L. Hostetler briefly served as a
the acts or debts of the corporation,” subject to two exceptions not relevant in either Aronson v.
The bottom line is that even though the legislature, fortified by Official Comments, was quite specific

Coverage Election
1. FORUM SELECTION CLAUSES 117
5. To employ and encourage electronic information technologies, such as e-filing, e-discovery,

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
1. STATEMENT OF RULES 83
States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
liability for the debts and obligations of an Indiana corporation. Spencer Aronson received a
the debts and obligations of a corporation because Aronson had established grounds for “piercing
personally liable for the debts, obligations, or liabilities of the limited liability
in a fiduciary relationship with one another and must deal fairly, honestly, and openly with the

Employer Notification Requirements
3. DETERMINING NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO CLASS MEMBERS 108
5. To employ and encourage electronic information technologies, such as e-filing, e-discovery,
information, often trade secrets; and (2) cases involving non-competition covenants given in

Posting Requirements
3. DETERMINING NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO CLASS MEMBERS 108
protection and policies regarding access to certain files may display
of state decides one of the five above grounds exists, written notice of that

Recordkeeping Requirements
International Pizza Supply Corporation and filed suit seeking the appraised value of his shares and,
that because the employees’ contracts contained covenants “not to take company documents and
medical records associated with a patient seen or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
The BCL defines a conflict of interest transaction as “a transaction with the corporation in which a
him or her in violation of a non-compete clause.”). Id.
Time is the least defined characteristic of non-competition covenants,
“extenuating” circumstances is not well-defined and whether Means

Sources
https://www.in.gov/courts/iocs/files/commercial-court-treatise.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:51:10
Original content length: 290,946 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
