Indiana Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
applicable federal, state, and local laws in its recruiting and hiring practices.
The State of Indiana is committed to providing the public with qualified staff who possess good character

Covered Employers
Consumer Report: A report compiled by, or received by the employer from, a consumer reporting agency.
reference checks from a prospective employer, other than the State of Indiana. [See IC 5-14-3-4(b)(8).]
x objections the victim/citizen may have to being the perpetrator’s employer;

Covered Employees
Approval State Personnel Director
This policy applies to all state agencies with employees in the state civil service. It is recommended that
The State of Indiana is committed to providing the public with qualified staff who possess good character

What Should Employers Do?
Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-208), Division C, Title IV, s. 403(a), as
exclusion from consideration; and, those facts must be researched before an informed decision can be
where the applicant has lived, worked, or attended school. State agencies may also require applicants to
x Review, approve, send requisition to Budget Agency for approval (if required) or to Recruiter for

Training Requirements
Background Checks refers to the following checks: Employment verification, Educational verification,
Educational verification: Telephone contact or written verification to ensure that the applicant possesses
all educational credentials on application/resume.

Training Deadlines
to another within the same state agency and/or (2) transferring, demoting, or promoting from one position
x Provide adverse action notices in appropriate situations within required time limits; and
were created by Hiring Managers but not sent for approval to HR within 30 days;

Qualified Trainers
The State of Indiana seeks to recruit and hire the best-qualified applicants and complies with all
The State of Indiana is committed to providing the public with qualified staff who possess good character

Special Requirements
x specific proscription in Indiana Code;
x any other information regarding fitness for a particular job.
available online. For especially sensitive positions, agencies may check court records in every jurisdiction

Coverage Election
eVerify program: The electronic verification of work authorization program of the Illegal Immigration
Person with a conditional offer of employment: An individual who is tentatively selected for a position. The

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Approval State Personnel Director
The State of Indiana seeks to recruit and hire the best-qualified applicants and complies with all

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-208), Division C, Title IV, s. 403(a), as
exclusion from consideration; and, those facts must be researched before an informed decision can be
x Review, approve, send requisition to Budget Agency for approval (if required) or to Recruiter for
x Provide adverse action notices in appropriate situations within required time limits; and

Employer Notification Requirements
A consumer reporting agency is any entity that collects or disseminates information about consumers to
Credit history check: Checking for information about credit cards, loans and other debts, and payment
Disposition: Process to remove and notify the candidate that they have been removed from consideration

Posting Requirements
notice. There is something in the individual’s State employment history that may be a legitimate basis for
x whether the offender performed the same type of work, post-conviction, with no known
education. (All applicants for a posted vacancy will be considered based on their qualifications

Recordkeeping Requirements
assist in maintaining a safe work environment for employees, clients, and customers of state agencies.
check, Sex Offender Registry check, Court records check, Motor vehicle check, Credit history check,
may include credit reports, criminal history checks, and driving records.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
substantiated by the evidence which results in the payment of fines, forfeiture of collateral or bond,
restitution, deferred adjudication or sentencing, probation, confinement, suspended sentence, pre-trial
diversion agreement, or any other penalty imposed by a court of law or agreed upon by the accused for a
violation by the State Ethics Commission. [See IC 4-2-6-12((7).] NEFR generally means there is a legal

Sources
https://www.in.gov/spd/files/bgcheckpolicy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:51:14
Original content length: 25,201 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
