Iowa Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
association, or other legal entity engaging in the manufacturing, processing, sale, offering

Covered Employers
community-based provider of services or other employer in the community.
these goods or services from a locally owned business located within the city, county, area
prohibit the giving of a preference to businesses owned or operated by minorities or females

Covered Employees
b. Goods and services offered only to students, employees, or guests of the institution or

What Should Employers Do?
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. A state agency or political subdivision shall not, unless specifically authorized by
e. Goods or services which are not otherwise available in the quantity or quality required
existing practice specified in subsection 1, that state agency must prepare for public

Training Requirements
a. Goods and services that are directly and reasonably related to the educational mission
i. Sale of books, records, tapes, software, educational equipment, and supplies.
corrections, may, by rule, provide for exemption from this chapter for vocational-educational

Training Deadlines
Fair Labor Standards Act. At least semiannually, the state resource center shall seek an
these goods or services from a locally owned business located within the city, county, area

Qualified Trainers
supplemental levy may be certified.

Special Requirements
1. A state agency or political subdivision shall not, unless specifically authorized by
(2) Student transportation, except as specifically listed in subsection 2, paragraph “c”.

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
23A.2 State agencies and political
3. “State agency” includes a state department, board, commission, or other unit of state

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
e. Goods or services which are not otherwise available in the quantity or quality required
existing practice specified in subsection 1, that state agency must prepare for public
at a competitive price. The documentation required by this subsection shall be in accordance
with that required by generally accepted accounting principles.

Employer Notification Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Posting Requirements
(5) Items displaying the emblem, mascot, or logo of the institution or school, or that

Recordkeeping Requirements
i. Sale of books, records, tapes, software, educational equipment, and supplies.
examination documentation showing that the state agency can provide the goods or services
at a competitive price. The documentation required by this subsection shall be in accordance

Penalties for Non-Compliance
or political subdivision, by intergovernmental agreement or otherwise, in violation of this
community action programs, as both are defined in section 216A.91.
a. The operation of a city enterprise, as defined in section 384.24, subsection 2.
b. The performance of an activity that is an essential corporate purpose of a city, as defined

Sources
https://www.legis.iowa.gov/docs/ico/chapter/23A.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:52:55
Original content length: 14,362 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
