Kansas Prevailing Wage Laws (public contracts)

Overview
Grantees must ensure that all construction contracts in excess of $2,000 comply with all applicable
federal labor standards and provisions. The grantee is responsible for monitoring contractors to

Covered Employers
record keeping and other regulations that affect employers and laborers. The FLSA is enforced by
initiate court action against employers which may result in fines and/or jail terms, payment of double
made to solicit bids from minority and women-owned businesses. Grantees are

Covered Employees
Davis-Bacon Act (40 USC 276a - 276a-5) requires that workers receive no less than the prevailing
Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (47 USC 276(c) requires that workers be paid at least once a week
taxes, deductions the worker authorizes in writing and deductions required by court processes. The

What Should Employers Do?
Grantees must ensure that all construction contracts in excess of $2,000 comply with all applicable
shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as
provided that this section shall apply to the rehabilitation of residential property only if such
Davis-Bacon Act (40 USC 276a - 276a-5) requires that workers receive no less than the prevailing

Training Requirements
such as being registered or certified in an appropriate apprenticeship or training
(Appendix La) is the recommended payroll format. Instructions for completing
Employee interviews must be conducted during the course of construction of CDBG

Training Deadlines
Commerce at least 15 days prior to advertising for bids to request Davis-Bacon wage
in at least one official newspaper of general circulation within the community 30 days
Ten days prior to the bid opening date, the grantee shall contact Commerce by mail or

Qualified Trainers
such as being registered or certified in an appropriate apprenticeship or training
obtaining and reviewing weekly certified payroll reports of the general contractor and

Special Requirements
decision. The only exception to this is when a worker is enrolled in approved apprentice program.
laborer is paid the journeyman’s wages. There will be no exceptions to this rule.
must be attached to the bid specifications and contracts. Each grantee must also monitor for

Coverage Election
Electricians, plumbers, sheet metal companies, painters, roofers and other trade contractors are
A pre-construction conference is optional only if the selected contractor and subcontractor have performed construction on past federally funded projects, and is/are

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Act also requires contractors to submit payroll records weekly along with Statements of Compliance
For any State funded NSP projects, no more than one laborer may assist a journeyman, unless that

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Grantees must ensure that all construction contracts in excess of $2,000 comply with all applicable
taxes, deductions the worker authorizes in writing and deductions required by court processes. The
they have worked 40 hours in one week. Overtime pay is not required for single contracts under
$100,000 under this Act; however, contractors must comply with the overtime requirements under

Employer Notification Requirements
Eligibility Form CDBG-LS-02 (Appendix D) and the Notice of Start of Construction Form CDBG
wage rate decisions, federal labor standards provisions and certifications. This information
grantee must advise Commerce, in writing, of the name, address, and telephone

Posting Requirements
Eligibility Form CDBG-LS-02 (Appendix D) and the Notice of Start of Construction Form CDBG
must be posted at or near the job site.
the bid announcement must be publicly advertised. This notice should be published

Recordkeeping Requirements
Act also requires contractors to submit payroll records weekly along with Statements of Compliance
record keeping and other regulations that affect employers and laborers. The FLSA is enforced by
contractor as part of the bid documents.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and DOL is authorized to investigate any violations and to
initiate court action against employers which may result in fines and/or jail terms, payment of double
when it appears the violations are willful and aggravated, the grantee shall submit a

Sources
https://www.kansascommerce.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/NSP-Labor-Section-9.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:55:07
Original content length: 45,404 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
