Kansas Pay Frequency & Payday Timing

Overview
contact numbers, and more, can be found in individual offices’ web sites on
confirmation). Officially designated holidays may impact the days that the

Covered Employers
deductions data to calculate an employee’s paycheck, deductions, employer
issued on the preceding business day.

Covered Employees
 Maintain employees payroll taxes, general deductions, direct deposits, and
Office of Personnel Services at http://www.admin.ks.gov/offices/personnelservices
deductions data to calculate an employee’s paycheck, deductions, employer

What Should Employers Do?
The SHARP Entry Guide attachment lists, by type, of all required entry items
FLSA status changes (i.e., from non-exempt to exempt) must be made prior
must manually calculate the payouts, and enter the hours/amounts on the
period, an earnings adjustment must be processed.

Training Requirements
After completing this course, you will be able to :
Now is your opportunity to ensure that you are learning the course
Click exit to close this window and to access the course outline

Training Deadlines
confirmation). Officially designated holidays may impact the days that the
days prior to the paycheck issue date. Unless the insufficiency occurs in a

Qualified Trainers
In this lesson, the SHARP trainer, Hall, will explain to the newly hired Payroll

Special Requirements
associated with a specific paycheck which has not been paid or redeemed
additional earnings such as longevity pay, suggestion awards and
Section to determine if any additional documents need to be completed for

Coverage Election
8000, then select the Assistance with SHARP option, for personal help.
Direct Deposit or Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) is the transfer of funds

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
contributions, and payroll charges to be uploaded to the state’s financial
Pay Period is the bi-weekly payroll cycle that all State of Kansas employees

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
The SHARP Entry Guide attachment lists, by type, of all required entry items
FLSA status changes (i.e., from non-exempt to exempt) must be made prior
must manually calculate the payouts, and enter the hours/amounts on the
period, an earnings adjustment must be processed.

Employer Notification Requirements
Informational Circular each year which contains a schedule of all the oncycle and off-cycle payrolls for the year. The Informational Circulars can be
found at http://www.admin.ks.gov/resources/informational-circulars.
earnings information for an employee for the pay period.

Posting Requirements
lookup function to display the current Deduction Code list for your agency. A
All payroll charges are budget checked and posted to SMART two working

Recordkeeping Requirements
 Maintain employees payroll taxes, general deductions, direct deposits, and
SHARP Documents and Forms page at
http://www.da.ks.gov/sharp/documents/default.htm.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
 Define payroll key terms and its mission

Sources
https://admin.ks.gov/media/cms/93a9b83a-17e3-4e1d-9242-7d3256592b58.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:54:15
Original content length: 20,816 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
