Kentucky Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
[View Previous Version](https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/906/001/190/14660/)
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.

Covered Employers
Applies for employment with an employer identified in subsection (6) of this section; or
KRS Chapter 517, business and commercial frauds;
Is hired directly or through contract by an employer defined in subsection (6) of this section, and has duties that involve or may involve one-on-one contact with a patient, resident, or client; or

Covered Employees
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.
"Employee" means an individual who:
Unless excluded pursuant to Section 2(3)(c) through (e) of this administrative regulation, is a volunteer who has duties that are equivalent to the duties of an employee providing direct services and the duties involve, or may involve, one-on-one contact with a patient, resident, or client; and

What Should Employers Do?
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.
Any other provider licensed by the cabinet for which a state and national background check is required as a condition of employment.
Any other individuals required by state law or administrative regulation to submit to a state and national background check as a condition of:
Child abuse and neglect registry maintained pursuant to 922 KAR 1:470 and required by 42 U.S.C. 671(a)(20);

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
Have thirty (30) calendar days from the date of payment pursuant to subsection (2) of this section to submit his or her fingerprints at an authorized collection site; and
Not exceed sixty (60) calendar days from the date of fingerprint collection.
The applicant fails to submit his or her fingerprints at an authorized collection site within thirty (30) calendar days of payment submitted pursuant to Section 5(3) of this administrative regulation; or

Qualified Trainers
Shall, upon receipt of a written request from an applicant, send a copy if any of a KSP or FBI criminal history report to the applicant by certified mail, restricted delivery service. The applicant shall show proof of identity and sign to receive his or her criminal history report from the local post office.
Shall, upon receipt of a written request from an applicant, send a copy if any of a KSP or FBI criminal history report to the applicant by certified mail, restricted delivery service. The applicant shall show proof of identity and sign to receive his or her criminal history report from the local post office.

Special Requirements
Applicability and Exceptions.
Applicability and Exceptions.

Coverage Election
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.
Use the KARES system to provide electronic notification to the cabinet affirming the employee's dismissal within three (3) business days of termination.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.
Is subject to background screening by a professional licensing board that enrolls contingent upon approval by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Kentucky State Police in the Kentucky NBCP.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
KRS 194A.050(1) requires the secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to promulgate administrative regulations necessary to operate programs and fulfill the responsibilities vested in the cabinet, qualify for the receipt of federal funds, and cooperate with other state and federal agencies for the proper administration of the cabinet and its programs. 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7I directs the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to establish a program to identify efficient, effective, and economical procedures for long-term care facilities or providers to conduct background checks on prospective direct patient access employees on a nationwide basis. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Office of Inspector General, is charged with responsibility to oversee and coordinate Kentucky's fingerprint-supported NBCP initiative. This administrative regulation establishes procedures for the implementation of Kentucky's NBCP as a voluntary program. The conditions set forth in this administrative regulation for voluntary KARES system participants are in addition to the name-based, state only background check requirements of KRS 216.533, 216.712(2), 216.787, and 216.789.
Any other provider licensed by the cabinet for which a state and national background check is required as a condition of employment.
Any other individuals required by state law or administrative regulation to submit to a state and national background check as a condition of:
Child abuse and neglect registry maintained pursuant to 922 KAR 1:470 and required by 42 U.S.C. 671(a)(20);

Employer Notification Requirements
To ensure that the information remains current in the KARES system, the cabinet shall collaborate with the Department of Kentucky State Police (KSP) to implement a mechanism for continuous assessment in which KSP:
Upon implementation of the process for continuous assessment, the Department of Kentucky State Police may provide notification to the cabinet of triggering events for each applicant after initial processing of the applicant's criminal background check, subject to any applicable administrative regulations of the Department of Kentucky State Police and the FBI.
Log on to the KARES portal, which shall be a secure web-based system maintained by the cabinet, and enter the applicant's demographic information for a check of:

Posting Requirements
Shall provide notice to the employer that the applicant is:
Shall, upon receipt of a written request from an applicant, send a copy if any of a KSP or FBI criminal history report to the applicant by certified mail, restricted delivery service. The applicant shall show proof of identity and sign to receive his or her criminal history report from the local post office.
Upon completion of the initial criminal background check for an applicant, or subsequent to the initial fingerprint check on a current employee, the employer, cabinet agency, or state-owned or operated health facility receives notice from the cabinet that the applicant is not eligible for hire based on a cabinet determination that the individual has been found to have a disqualifying offense.

Recordkeeping Requirements
The previous document that this document is based upon is available.
This is how this document appeared before it was engrossed.
"Criminal background check" means a state and national fingerprint-supported criminal history background check performed by the Department of Kentucky State Police (KSP) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and includes a comparison of the applicant's fingerprints with any fingerprints that may be on file with KSP or the FBI.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Abuse, neglect, or exploitation of an adult as defined by KRS 209.020(4);
A criminal offense against a victim who is a minor, as defined in KRS 17.500(3);
KRS 217.182, Sale, distribution, administration, prescription, or possession of legend drugs – Penalty;
A sex crime as defined by KRS 17.500(8);

Sources
https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/906/001/190/

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:56:44
Original content length: 63,757 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
