Louisiana Paid Family / Medical Leave (PFML)

Overview
FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA)

Covered Employers
 Public agencies are covered employers; includes federal,
 One state is considered one employer – State of LA is one
 Employees must meet the eligibility requirements Must have a qualifying condition Employers must provide notifications to employees

Covered Employees
1993 for the purpose of helping employees balance their
The Act entitles eligible employees to take up to a total
 The 50‐employee threshold does not apply for public

What Should Employers Do?
What are the requirements for FMLA?
 Employees must meet the eligibility requirements Must have a qualifying condition Employers must provide notifications to employees
 Employees must provide certifications from a health care
 Must have been employed by the state for at least 12

Training Requirements
instructions and information; enforce.

Training Deadlines
months. The State of LA is considered is one employer.
 12 months need not be consecutive months.
“continuing treatment” for more than 3 consecutive calendar days if

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Definitions and specific examples are contained in the FMLA
entitlement to FMLA. Specific details are contained in Title 29
• Employers have additional time to evaluate whether an employee is

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Department of State Civil Service
The purpose of this presentation is to provide information onthe tools and resources available to help with management ofthe FMLA in Louisiana state agencies.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
 Employees must meet the eligibility requirements Must have a qualifying condition Employers must provide notifications to employees
 Employees must provide certifications from a health care
 Must have been employed by the state for at least 12
 Must have physically worked for at least 1,250 hours

Employer Notification Requirements
The purpose of this presentation is to provide information onthe tools and resources available to help with management ofthe FMLA in Louisiana state agencies.
 Inform on some key components of the FMLA as well as tools
 Employees must meet the eligibility requirements Must have a qualifying condition Employers must provide notifications to employees

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
physical or mental condition that involves inpatient care as definedor continuing treatment by a health care provider as defined.
hospice, or residential medical care facility, including anyperiod of incapacity as defined or any subsequent treatmentin connection with inpatient care.

Sources
https://www.civilservice.louisiana.gov/files/HRHandbook/JobAid/11-FMLA%20Workshop%20Presentation.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:58:04
Original content length: 14,828 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
