Louisiana Day-of-Rest / Predetermined Break Laws

Overview
In compliance with all aspects of federal and state laws, Civil Service Rules, and DOA
as "exempt" under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).

Covered Employers
business necessity allows. Business necessity will take precedence over any
business that employees are to be present and able to perform their job duties when

Covered Employees
Personnel Policy #6, Attendance/Leave, Work Hours and Work Schedules, it is the
policy of the Division of Administration (DOA) that all employees be informed of the
at their discretion, within the parameters of the DOA Personnel Policy regulating

What Should Employers Do?
requesting leave, (i.e. requirements for online leave approval or exemption) and that
flexible work hours or schedules must be rescinded.
Further, all sections within the DOA are required to use the Online Leave Approval
approvals, and cancellations of applicable leave. The requirement for online leave

Training Requirements
accordance with the following instructions and procedures.
Annual leave and other applicable leave (i.e. jury leave, educational leave,
(following the instructions given above) until such time as the employee is

Training Deadlines
at their discretion, within the parameters of the DOA Personnel Policy regulating
Further, all sections within the DOA are required to use the Online Leave Approval
• Four (4) ten (10) hour days in a one-week period, Monday through Thursday

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
process through LEO (Louisiana Employees Online system), unless specifically
Additionally, any leave requested from a home PC does not eliminate the
The employee may be required to produce specific documentation/evidence of

Coverage Election
(optional) input the amount of leave used into the LEO system. All annual
shall immediately upon returning to the office or at home, (optional) input the

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
In compliance with all aspects of federal and state laws, Civil Service Rules, and DOA
http://www.state.la.us/ohr

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
flexible work hours or schedules must be rescinded.
Further, all sections within the DOA are required to use the Online Leave Approval
Note: All leave (annual, sick, compensatory, leave without pay, etc.) must
responsibility in the area of attendance, leave usage, the process for requesting

Employer Notification Requirements
policy of the Division of Administration (DOA) that all employees be informed of the
flexible work schedules upon immediate notice if it is determined that such schedules
or the Division. If circumstances allow, employees will be given advance notice if

Posting Requirements
flexible work schedules upon immediate notice if it is determined that such schedules
or the Division. If circumstances allow, employees will be given advance notice if

Recordkeeping Requirements
conditions while maintaining an efficient and effective operation.
an absence. All leave will be utilized and recorded in no less than six-minute
The employee may be required to produce specific documentation/evidence of

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://www.doa.la.gov/media/ytqfftlv/attendance-leave-work-hours-guide.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 17:59:12
Original content length: 14,785 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
