Maine Workers’ Compensation Requirements

Overview
subject to a limit set by law. Workers’ compensation is the exclusive remedy for the coverage of
The law requires almost all public and private employers to have workers’ compensation

Covered Employers
AN EMPLOYER’S GUIDE TO...
work related injuries by the employer.
The law requires almost all public and private employers to have workers’ compensation

Covered Employees
WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE IN MAINE
WHAT IS WORKER’S COMPENSATION INSURANCE?
Workers’ compensation provides for benefits for occupational injuries or disease suffered by an

What Should Employers Do?
The law requires almost all public and private employers to have workers’ compensation
required by law. Failure to obtain coverage does not relieve the employer of their responsibility
for payments required due to a workers’ compensation claim.
Employers Who are Not Required to Have

Training Requirements
Charitable, Religious, Educational, or Other Nonprofit Corporations
Duly elected or appointed executive officers of charitable, religious, educational, or other

Training Deadlines
 Get proposals for insurance at least 90 days before your policy expires. It usually takes an
insurance company at least 30 days to review and evaluate an application. It also takes time
General Rule: the business is classified, not the individual jobs within the business.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
specifically included among those for whom workers' compensation insurance has been
An exception: A landowner who contracts for wood harvesting may be liable for benefits to
• From a licensed producer who sells property and casualty insurance and who specializes in or

Coverage Election
Duly elected or appointed executive officers of charitable, religious, educational, or other
claims cost. MEMIC also insures in the regular (voluntary) market competing with other

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
coverage. The law defines employers as “private employers, the State, counties, cities, towns,
34 State House Station

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
required by law. Failure to obtain coverage does not relieve the employer of their responsibility
for payments required due to a workers’ compensation claim.
Employers Who are Not Required to Have
A sole proprietor without employees is not required to have coverage under the Workers’

Employer Notification Requirements
For more information and self‐insurance application forms, contact:
 Request information from your producer about the rating, loss control services, and
• Keep a file of loss information to use to obtain competitive proposals from insurance

Posting Requirements
employer must be financially sound and must post enough security to guarantee the payment
give 30 days’ notice to the insurer after the work begins.

Recordkeeping Requirements
laborers, if the employer maintains at least $25,000 in employers’ liability insurance, with at
• Employers of six or fewer agricultural or aquacultural laborers, if the employer maintains
very few losses and who have a good attitude about implementing and maintaining safety

Penalties for Non-Compliance
coverage. The law defines employers as “private employers, the State, counties, cities, towns,
penalty of up to $10,000 or an amount equal to 108% of the premium that should have been

Sources
https://www.maine.gov/pfr/insurance/sites/maine.gov.pfr.insurance/files/inline-files/workers_comp_employer_guide.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:01:05
Original content length: 21,588 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
