Maine Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
employment in accordance with provisions of the Maine Human Rights Act, the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, and the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act. All state

Covered Employers
employee or their representative has communicated to the employer.
or operation of the business.
time “each time such employee has need to express the milk.” An employer may not

Covered Employees
childbirth, or related medical condition who is an employee or applicant for
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, and the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act. All state
employee or their representative has communicated to the employer.

What Should Employers Do?
employee be required to accept an accommodation other than one that has been
their position must be considered before accommodations that require the
accommodation of last resort after considering accommodations that require the
if an accommodation request requires supporting medical information, an interim

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
2 months, and an undue hardship would exist after 1 month, the employee
determine whether the request is reasonable within the framework of existing

Qualified Trainers
timely manner for any qualified individual with known limitations due to pregnancy,
employment opportunity to any qualified individual with a known limitation due to

Special Requirements
1. Additional breaks to eat/drink and use the restroom;

Coverage Election
suspension of essential job functions. However, an employee may elect to go on

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
It is the policy of the State of Maine to provide reasonable accommodations in a
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, and the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act. All state

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
employee be required to accept an accommodation other than one that has been
their position must be considered before accommodations that require the
An employee is not required to accept a reasonable accommodation. However,
appropriate circumstances. All requests for accommodation must be

Employer Notification Requirements
if an accommodation request requires supporting medical information, an interim
accommodation could be provided while waiting for that information.
Requests for medical information cannot be made if the need for accommodation

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
documented and processed as expeditiously as possible and, in all cases,
request for medical documentation must be limited to:
history of employees, including genetic information, is maintained in separate

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://www.maine.gov/bhr/sites/maine.gov.bhr/files/inline-files/Final%20Policy%20on%20Pregnancy%2C%20Childbirth%2C%20and%20Related%20Medical%20Conditions.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:00:30
Original content length: 10,179 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
