Maryland Crime Victim / Domestic Violence Leave

Overview
1.3 The State of Maryland has a zero tolerance policy for domestic violence at the work place and will take appropriate disciplinary action and/or criminal prosecution against any employee or non-employee who commits an act of domestic violence in state offices, facilities, work site, vehicles, or while conducting any state business.
3.2 Perpetrator – An individual who commits an act of domestic violence.

Covered Employers
1.3 The State of Maryland has a zero tolerance policy for domestic violence at the work place and will take appropriate disciplinary action and/or criminal prosecution against any employee or non-employee who commits an act of domestic violence in state offices, facilities, work site, vehicles, or while conducting any state business.

Covered Employees
State of Maryland Personnel Policy
1.2 The State of Maryland seeks to create a supportive workplace environment in which employees feel comfortable discussing domestic violence and seeking assistance for domestic violence.
1.3 The State of Maryland has a zero tolerance policy for domestic violence at the work place and will take appropriate disciplinary action and/or criminal prosecution against any employee or non-employee who commits an act of domestic violence in state offices, facilities, work site, vehicles, or while conducting any state business.

What Should Employers Do?
5.2 An employee shall not be disciplined or penalized in the workplace for being a victim of domestic violence.
5.3 When an employee subject to discipline confides that the job performance or conduct problem is caused by domestic violence, the employee shall be referred to the State’s Employee Assistance Program.
7. EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES 7.1 All employees shall:
8. VICTIM RESPONSIBILITIES AND ASSISTANCE OPTIONS 8.1 Employees who are victims of domestic violence shall:

Training Requirements
7.1.1 attend Domestic Violence and the Workplace Training; and
10.1.2 participate in Domestic Violence and the Workplace Training;
10.2 The posting of materials may include, but not limited to the following: locker rooms, bulletin boards, rest rooms, inserts in paycheck stubs, inter-office memos and newsletters. Educational materials may take the form of posters, brochures, informational cards and flyers, etc.

Training Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Coverage Election
5.4 The employee’s participation in the State Employee Assistance’s Program is voluntary.
6.2 An employee who is found using any state resources such as work time, workplace phones, facsimile machines, mail, electronic mail, or other means to commit an act of domestic violence may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
State of Maryland Personnel Policy
1. POLICY 1.1 The State of Maryland is dedicated to the prevention and elimination of domestic violence.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Employer Notification Requirements
4. CONFIDENTIALITY 4.1 In order to ensure the safety of all employees who comply with the law (including the Public Information Act), any information related to domestic violence or the State’s response to domestic violence will only be disclosed on a need to know basis.
8.1.1 notify their supervisor of the possible need to be absent and discuss possible leave options;
10.1.4 maintain the confidentiality of all information related to an employee’s involvement in a situation relating to domestic violence.

Posting Requirements
display or discussion of weapons;
10.2 The posting of materials may include, but not limited to the following: locker rooms, bulletin boards, rest rooms, inserts in paycheck stubs, inter-office memos and newsletters. Educational materials may take the form of posters, brochures, informational cards and flyers, etc.

Recordkeeping Requirements
3. DEFINITIONS 3.1 Domestic Violence – Abusive behavior whereby a person intends to establish and maintain power and control over person with whom he or she has, or has had, a significant personal relationship. Power and control are exerted through physical, sexual, psychological and or economic means. Examples of domestic violence include, but are not limited to:
10.1.4 maintain the confidentiality of all information related to an employee’s involvement in a situation relating to domestic violence.
11.1.2 maintain up-to-date referral resources on domestic violence hotlines, advocacy groups, shelters, counseling services and legal services (pro bono legal assistance and domestic violence/family court information);

Penalties for Non-Compliance
violation of an ex parte or protective order;

Sources
https://dbm.maryland.gov/employees/pages/domesticviolencepolicy.aspx

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:03:22
Original content length: 6,862 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
