Mississippi Employee Benefits Mandates (like state retirement savings programs)

Overview
Security Act (Section 218 Agreements), employment tax laws and other tax issues. The tax information generally applies to
Revenue Act of 1978 (Section 530 relief) doesn't apply to federal agencies.

Covered Employers
The Federal-State Reference Guide provides state and local government employers a comprehensive reference source on Social Security and Medicare coverage and federal tax withholding issues. The guide was first published
tribal governments as employers. Tribal governments are required to follow substantially the same procedures as other
employers. Tribes are not eligible for Section 218 Agreements; however, tribes may apply to SSA to have wages paid to

Covered Employees
local and Indian tribal government employees and
(NCSSSA). Topics addressed in this publication include determination of worker status, public retirement systems (FICA
CHAPTER 4 | Determining Worker Status

What Should Employers Do?
coverage and tax withholding requirements for state,
tribal governments as employers. Tribal governments are required to follow substantially the same procedures as other
Federal tax requirements generally apply to public employers in the same way that they do to private employers. However,
withholding requirements.

Training Requirements
• Education and maintenance of schools within the state
governments provide government services, such as transportation, education and medical care to its members.
Section 450b(e) (Section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act), and includes any

Training Deadlines
Social Security coverage can vary widely within a state or even a local area. Do not make an assumption about Section
• Regulation and improvement of transportation and roads within the state
• Regulation of business within the state

Qualified Trainers
qualified participants in the public retirement system are not subject to mandatory Social Security
Procedure 91-40. For Section 218 purposes, it is irrelevant whether the retirement system meets the minimum benefit standards for a qualified

Special Requirements
federal agencies, with some exceptions; for example, the discussion of employment that is subject to Social Security and
Other special statutory provisions apply to tribal governments. For more information about Indian tribal governments, visit
for state and local government employees. Special provisions apply to the application of these taxes as well as certain

Coverage Election
Beginning in 1951, states could enter into voluntary agreements with the federal government to provide Social Security
January 1, 1951 Beginning this date, states could voluntarily elect Social Security coverage for public

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
A Federal-State Cooperative Publication
• National Conference of State Social Security Administrators

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
tribal governments as employers. Tribal governments are required to follow substantially the same procedures as other
In general, to determine the correct coverage for a group of employees, a government employer must address the
Agreement, then the employer must determine whether mandatory FICA coverage applies. To do this, the employer must
(1) Section 218 required and optional exclusions (see Chapter 5)

Employer Notification Requirements
Security Act (Section 218 Agreements), employment tax laws and other tax issues. The tax information generally applies to
Medicare taxes, including the Section 218 Agreement information, and the discussion of relief under Section 530 of the
This publication also includes information for Indian tribal governments. Federal tax law establishes the role of Indian

Posting Requirements
Indian tribe fails to make either form of payment within 90 days of receiving a notice of delinquency, or if it fails to
post a required payment bond, then service for the tribe is not excepted from “employment” until the failure has
employee’s share of the Social Security and Medicare tax (Notice 89-34, 1989-1 C.B. 674).

Recordkeeping Requirements
by Section 218 of the Social Security Act. Originally, government entities filed with the SSA, but since 1987, the IRS has
interpretation of individual Section 218 Agreements. SSA also administers benefits and maintains individual earnings
records. See Chapter 7, Social Security Administration.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
provides specific exceptions. The Internal Revenue Code defines wages subject to income tax withholding under Section
3401 and defines wages for Social Security and Medicare tax purposes under Section 3121. As discussed in Chapter 2, a
IRC Section Penalty Assessed For Penalty Rates
the failure to file penalty is assessed at

Sources
https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p963.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:10:58
Original content length: 381,618 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
