Mississippi Overtime & Hours

Overview
SUBJECT: Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Polic
PURPOSE: To define and state requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).

Covered Employers
A.M. Since the travel time is for the employer’s benefit and is required, it is compensable

Covered Employees
distributed to appropriate staff.
compensation is awarded to employees both public and private. In very basic terms, the FLSA
all covered employees be paid at least minimum wage; and

What Should Employers Do?
PURPOSE: To define and state requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
ACTION: Division Directors shall ensure that a copy of this cover and attached policy are
REQUIREMENTS OF THE FLSA
above are classified as non-exempt. The FLSA requires that non-exempt

Training Requirements
Gulfport, with instructions to leave Jackson at 5:00 A.M. in order to arrive in Gulfport by 8:00
required to report at a meeting place to receive instructions or to perform other work there, or to

Training Deadlines
DIRECTIVES: Policies and procedures previously administered within divisions of MDHS with
this policy within any division of MDHS, the questions should be directed to the Division

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
There are no exceptions to this policy. If there are any questions about the application of
Special One Day Assignment in Another City
A problem arises when an employee who works at a fixed location in one city is given a special

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
PURPOSE: To define and state requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
compensation is required. FLSA compensatory time is calculated at the rate of
Non-FLSA compensatory time is overtime not required by the statutory
Prior approval by the employee’s supervisor is required for any overtime worked or any
A.M. Since the travel time is for the employer’s benefit and is required, it is compensable

Employer Notification Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
PURPOSE: To define and state requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) defines the way that overtime is worked and overtime

Sources
https://www.mdhs.ms.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/AP-10-Fair-Labor-Standards-Act-FLSA-Policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:09:14
Original content length: 5,459 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
