Nebraska Crime Victim / Domestic Violence Leave

Overview
Law Enforcement and Criminal Justices ǀ 2004
therefore, if you have additional questions, please contact the County Attorney or a Victim

Covered Employers
6. To be provided help in working with the victim’s employer to minimize an employee’s
http://sos.nebraska.gov/business-services/address-confidentiality-program
certifiers must respond to all requests for U visa certifications within 90 business days of

Covered Employees
6. To be provided help in working with the victim’s employer to minimize an employee’s

What Should Employers Do?
attorney can require that the victim and other witnesses attend the Preliminary Hearing
and require them to testify. The defendant will be present at the Preliminary Hearing.
the prosecutor has against the defendant. The prosecutor is required by law
Victim Assistance Program. The prosecutor must make reasonable and good faith efforts

Training Requirements
help or over the course of several days. If the crime involves a sexual assault, the victim
educational and work release programs.
educational or work release programs. Such notification shall occur at the

Training Deadlines
operate within the crime justice system and are available to any victim of any type of
help or over the course of several days. If the crime involves a sexual assault, the victim
 Of the final disposition of the case within 30 days after the final disposition is made.

Qualified Trainers
qualified U Visa certifiers, which can include law enforcement, prosecutors, judges, Child
Victims are encouraged to obtain T Visa certification forms from qualified certifiers, but a

Special Requirements
System, specifically cases that involve a felony level offense. It is meant to be an overview,
therefore, if you have additional questions, please contact the County Attorney or a Victim
Later in this guide we will review some specific rights for victims in the adult criminal

Coverage Election
select state: https://www.vinelink.com/classic/#/home
A victim may also choose to have a private attorney present during these interviews.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
state laws protecting confidential communication between a victim and an advocate.
*Offender is detained outside of Nebraska in another state’s jail or prison - VINELink and

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
the prosecutor has against the defendant. The prosecutor is required by law
Victim Assistance Program. The prosecutor must make reasonable and good faith efforts
To qualify a victim must:
facility, the victim must first register on the NEVCAP website to be notified via text

Employer Notification Requirements
Information about the Criminal Justice System
This guide is intended to provide basic information about Nebraska’s Criminal Justice
 Ask the County Attorney or an advocate for information on protection orders.

Posting Requirements
6) Post-Conviction Process
to provide notice and keep victims informed of rights, information and process. You can
Waive (Victim Rights) - To voluntarily give up or to temporarily postpone your rights as a

Recordkeeping Requirements
Felony Case Filed in County Court by Prosecution
if criminal charges are to be filed with the court. At this point, the authority of the case
the crime, the County Attorney will decide what charges to file and then files those criminal

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Pre-sentence Investigation was done. The sentence may include fines
guilty of, and the penalty.
pardon proceedings, or commutation (change in punishment) proceedings.
9. To be notified if the prisoner is subsequently confined pursuant to a sentence.

Sources
https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Victim%27s-Guide.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:16:27
Original content length: 37,649 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
