Nevada Workers’ Compensation Requirements

Overview
association and private corporation, including any public service corporation, which has in service any person under a contract
inclusive, of NRS and mean every person in the service of an employer under any appointment or contract of hire

Covered Employers
NEVADA EMPLOYER COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS
The statutes are clear on the issue of employer coverage. Unless excluded by statute, “…Every person, firm, voluntary
key to decisions regarding when an employer is required to have coverage.

Covered Employees
Workers’ Compensation
A review of some of the definitions found in Nevada Statutes is appropriate. NRS 616A.105 broadly defines an employee
“Employee” and “worker” defined.“Employee” and “worker” are used interchangeably in chapters 616A to 616D,

What Should Employers Do?
NEVADA EMPLOYER COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS
key to decisions regarding when an employer is required to have coverage.
“…subcontractors, independent contractors and the employees of either shall be deemed to be
subcontractor, or independent contractor must provide this coverage. You will be held responsible if no

Training Requirements
1. Any person whose employment is both casual and not in the course of the trade, business, profession or

Training Deadlines
3. Musicians when their services are merely casual in nature and not lasting more than 2 consecutive days,

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Note: NRS 616A.115 through 225 have other specific clarifications to the employee definition.
Other exceptions can be found in NRS 616B.606:

Coverage Election
The statutes are clear on the issue of employer coverage. Unless excluded by statute, “…Every person, firm, voluntary
2. All elected and appointed paid public officers.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
8. Any real estate broker, broker-salesperson or salesperson licensed pursuant to chapter 645 of NRS.
Real estate brokers and salespersons not employers under certain circumstances. Any person licensed

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
key to decisions regarding when an employer is required to have coverage.
subcontractor, or independent contractor must provide this coverage. You will be held responsible if no
In order to not be deemed the employer under the “independent enterprise exemption,” 1.) You must not be “in
contract. And 2.) The person or business with whom you contract must be an independent enterprise. Otherwise,

Employer Notification Requirements
Caution: The information below is provided as a public service and is not intended to be legal advice. If
The information below is not meant to cover every situation. Many of these concepts have been litigated and have been

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
organization. As used in this subsection, “sports official” includes an umpire, referee, judge, scorekeeper,
timekeeper or other person who is a neutral participant in a sporting event.
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 645 of NRSwho engages an independent contractor to maintain or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
A review of some of the definitions found in Nevada Statutes is appropriate. NRS 616A.105 broadly defines an employee
“Employee” and “worker” defined.“Employee” and “worker” are used interchangeably in chapters 616A to 616D,
Another consideration is whether the employer is a licensed contractor as defined by NRS 624. If you are a
NRS 616A.285 “Principal contractor” defined. “Principal contractor” means a person who:

Sources
https://dir.nv.gov/uploadedfiles/dirnvgov/content/WCS/EmployersDocs/EmployerCoverageRequirements.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:18:02
Original content length: 10,889 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
