Nevada Prevailing Wage Laws (public contracts)

Overview
CONTRACTORS AND THE OFFICE OF THE LABOR COMMISSIONER
I. PURPOSE - This handbook is intended to provide general guidelines to help awarding bodies

Covered Employers
Department of Business & Industry
5. Any work performed by or for any railroad company. (See NRS
iv. Benefits - While under Nevada law, part of an employer’s/contractor’s

Covered Employees
discharged by providing certain benefits for the employee. It is important to
i. Salaried employees must be paid the applicable Prevailing Wage rate for the
“salaried employee” exception for any workman under NRS 338.

What Should Employers Do?
party and that requires the employment of skilled or unskilled labor in the performance
of a public work must contain in expressed terms the rate of wages to be paid to each
of the classes of workmen. The rate of wages must not be less than the rate of such
prevailing wage requirements under Federal law (Davis-Bacon) and requirements in

Training Requirements
of Apprenticeship and Training of the Office of Apprenticeship, Training,
Employer and Labor Services of the Employment and Training Administration
training/apprentice, or vacation. Any contribution other than health and welfare

Training Deadlines
day for 4 calendar days within a scheduled week of work. (See Advisory
the Labor Commissioner within 10 days after the award, giving the name and address
whom the contractor engages for work on the project within 10 days after the

Qualified Trainers
IV. RECEIPT OF CERTIFIED PAYROLL REPORTS
a. WHAT IS A CERTIFIED PAYROLL REPORT/RECORD (CPR)? (see NRS 338.070;

Special Requirements
published on an as needed basis and contain a specific effective date.
ii. Exceptions to the applicability of the prevailing wage rate:
2. An exception to the daily overtime rule may apply when, by mutual

Coverage Election
format selected by the contractor or subcontractor that meets the requirements of the
person, tractor operator, carpenter helper, or electrician assistant.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
b. “Public body” defined – The State of Nevada or any county, city, town, school district
many states that surround Nevada, Nevada’s prevailing wage requirements may be

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
of a public work must contain in expressed terms the rate of wages to be paid to each
of the classes of workmen. The rate of wages must not be less than the rate of such
subcontractor must pay any mechanic or workman one and one half
obligation for the payment of the applicable Prevailing Wage rate may be

Employer Notification Requirements
Because of this, the awarding body is advised to request the number at the
b. NOTIFICATION OF CANCELED OR DELAYED PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
c. NOTICE OF AWARD FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT

Posting Requirements
Prevailing wage rates and amendments are posted on the Labor
c. NOTICE OF AWARD FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
d. NOTICE OF COMPLETION FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT

Recordkeeping Requirements
4. Apprentices recorded/registered under the provisions of NRS Chapter
where the State of Nevada or a local government body or agency maintains
solicitation, and the number must be included in any bid or other document

Penalties for Non-Compliance
a. “Public work” defined – Any project funded in whole or in part from public money for
b. “Public body” defined – The State of Nevada or any county, city, town, school district
6. Design professionals as defined under NRS 338.010(7).
or penalties apply for violations of NRS 338. 010 to NRS 338.090, inclusive, or NAC

Sources
https://labor.nv.gov/uploadedFiles/labornvgov/content/PrevailingWage/PWP%20Handbook%20October%202017.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:18:09
Original content length: 49,443 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
