New Jersey Pay Frequency & Payday Timing

Overview
Chapter 173, Laws of New Jersey, 1965:
l Employees paid on an incentive system shall be paid a reasonable approximation of wages due until exact amounts can be

Covered Employers
All Employers Must Pay Wages to All Employees in Full at Least Twice a Calendar Month.
chartered bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association • company-operated thrift plans • security option or security purchase
Purchase of company products or employer loans in accordance with a periodic payment schedule contained in the original purchase

Covered Employees
All Employers Must Pay Wages to All Employees in Full at Least Twice a Calendar Month.
Executive and supervisory employees, however, may be paid at least once a calendar month.
l Employees leaving or terminated for any reason, including labor disputes, shall be paid all wages due not later than the regular

What Should Employers Do?
All Employers Must Pay Wages to All Employees in Full at Least Twice a Calendar Month.
Payment shall be made on regular paydays designated in advance.
When a payday falls on a non-work day, payment shall be made on the immediately preceding work day, unless otherwise provided for in
The end of the pay period for which payment is made on a regular payday shall be not more than 10 working days before such regular

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
Payment shall be made on regular paydays designated in advance.
The end of the pay period for which payment is made on a regular payday shall be not more than 10 working days before such regular
l An additional 10 days may be allowed in the event of a labor dispute involving payroll employees.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
l An additional 10 days may be allowed in the event of a labor dispute involving payroll employees.
Additional copies of this poster or any other required

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Amounts authorized by New Jersey or United States Law or payments to correct payroll errors.
establishing individual retirement annuities on a group or individual basis • individual retirement accounts at any State or federally

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
All Employers Must Pay Wages to All Employees in Full at Least Twice a Calendar Month.
If payment is by check, suitable arrangements must be made for cashing the check without difficulty and for the full amount.
Provide employees at time of hiring a required notice (form number MW-400) describing the employer’s obligation to maintain and report
Additional copies of this poster or any other required

Employer Notification Requirements
Notify employees at time of hiring the rate of pay and the regular payday.
Notify employees of changes in pay rates or paydays prior to the changes.
Provide employees at time of hiring a required notice (form number MW-400) describing the employer’s obligation to maintain and report

Posting Requirements
To be posted in a conspicuous place
Provide employees at time of hiring a required notice (form number MW-400) describing the employer’s obligation to maintain and report
The Commissioner may, after affording the employer or successor firm notice and an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with

Recordkeeping Requirements
Make and keep records for employees, including wages and hours, and make such records available for inspection.
Provide employees at time of hiring a required notice (form number MW-400) describing the employer’s obligation to maintain and report
records regarding wages, benefits, taxes and other contributions and assessments.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000. Each day during which any violation of this act continues shall
As an alternative to or in addition to any other sanctions provided by law for violations, the Commissioner is authorized to assess and collect
administrative penalties, up to a maximum of $250 for a first violation and up to a maximum of $500 for each subsequent violation.

Sources
https://www.nj.gov/labor/forms_pdfs/lsse/mw-17.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:20:59
Original content length: 5,874 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
