New Hampshire Right-to-Work Laws (where applicable)

Overview
New Hampshire 2017 SB11-FN ALEC Right to Work Act Model Bill
273-D:1 Short Title. This act may be cited as the

Covered Employers
organizations, or to refrain from any such activity.
I. “Employer” means any individual, corporation,
association, organization, or entity that employs one

Covered Employees
kind, or agency or employee representation
agency or employee representation committee or
earnings, or compensation of any employee any dues,

What Should Employers Do?
that all persons shall have, and shall be protected in
Discrimination Prohibited. No person shall be
required, as a condition of employment or
that the right to work shall not be subject to undue

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
notice of such revocation 30 days in advance of its
giving the employer 30 days written notice.
imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
273-D:13 Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter

Coverage Election
I. To resign or refrain from voluntary membership in,
voluntary affiliation with, or voluntary financial

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
declared to be the public policy of this state in order
to, the state of New Hampshire and its agencies, every

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
required, as a condition of employment or
required, as a condition of employment or
charges regularly required of members of a labor

Employer Notification Requirements
notice of such revocation 30 days in advance of its
promptly notify that employee in writing that the
giving the employer 30 days written notice.

Posting Requirements
notice of such revocation 30 days in advance of its
giving the employer 30 days written notice.
273-D:7 Notice to be Posted. It shall be the duty of

Recordkeeping Requirements
every employer to post and keep continuously
as a condition of obtaining or keeping a job. Under

Penalties for Non-Compliance
penalty or reprise, to form, join, or assist labor
273-D:6 Agreements in Violation, and Actions to
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Section 6. {Agreements in violation, and actions to

Sources
https://standuptoalec.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/New-Hampshire-ALEC-RTW-Comparison.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:20:17
Original content length: 13,609 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
