New York Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
employee leaves a job. A non-compete may be one section of an employment contract or a
standalone contract that an employee signs before or after employment begins.

Covered Employers
competitor or opening a competing business, typically for a certain period of time after an
employer’s legitimate interests, (2) does not impose an undue hardship on the employee, (3) does
not harm the public, and (4) is reasonable in time period and geographic scope. An employer’s

Covered Employees
A non-competition agreement (“non-compete”) prohibits an employee from working for a
employee leaves a job. A non-compete may be one section of an employment contract or a
standalone contract that an employee signs before or after employment begins.

What Should Employers Do?
competitor. A non-compete’s restrictions must be no greater than necessary to protect the
A court may require an employee to comply with some parts of a non-compete agreement, even
No law requires you to sign a non-compete, but an employer is allowed to require you to sign a
non-compete before or after you start work. Employees can easily overlook the terms of a noncompete if they are told they must sign it just to be hired or to continue employment. In doing so,

Training Requirements
some employers provide a bonus or specialized training, guarantee employment for

Training Deadlines
period of time within a certain geographic area. If a non-compete is too restrictive, then it may be
from sandwiches, within a two-mile radius of a Jimmy John’s location, for twoyears.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
information and preventing employees from taking specialized skills they gained on the job to a
some employers provide a bonus or specialized training, guarantee employment for

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
New York State Attorney General
Non-Compete Agreements In New York State

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
competitor. A non-compete’s restrictions must be no greater than necessary to protect the
non-compete before or after you start work. Employees can easily overlook the terms of a noncompete if they are told they must sign it just to be hired or to continue employment. In doing so,

Employer Notification Requirements
information and preventing employees from taking specialized skills they gained on the job to a
• Can you have a lawyer review the language and advise you on its potential
rank-and-file employees, and we have reached agreements with employers to stop using noncompetes for employees who did not have access to trade secrets or confidential information:

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
An employer can file a lawsuit and ask a court to enforce the non-compete and require the
employee’s new employer threatening to file a lawsuit to discourage employees from taking a
2. Before signing, make sure you read and understand any document that an employer

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://ag.ny.gov/sites/default/files/non-competes.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:25:09
Original content length: 6,385 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
