New Mexico Harassment Training

Overview
prompt and appropriate action in response to complaints or knowledge of violations of this
Under the Constitution of New Mexico, legal action generally cannot be taken against members

Covered Employers
begin within five business days of having received the complaint. The individual responsible for
begin within five business days of having received the complaint. The individual responsible for
and notifying the individual's employer or clients. A record of each complaint and resolution

Covered Employees
this policy. Legislative staff in supervisory positions have a duty to report harassment as
A legislative employee with a workplace harassment complaint may pursue the complaint with
Complaints against legislative staff

What Should Employers Do?
A report or complaint of harassment and documents related to any investigation shall be
complaining will be considered in the context of the legal obligation to act on the allegations and
a supervisory position. The person receiving the complaint shall promptly cause an investigation
complaint shall be investigated promptly, impartially and discreetly. The investigation shall

Training Requirements
enforcement of this policy and through continuing education and training, the Legislature will
hugging, patting, cornering, kissing, fondling and forced sexual intercourse or assault.
to be conducted and may delegate the investigation to a person with appropriate training,

Training Deadlines
begin within five business days of having received the complaint. The individual responsible for
termination. The complainant and the respondent may appeal within 10 calendar days, in which
begin within five business days of having received the complaint. The individual responsible for

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
additional voting member of the investigative subcommittee. That additional voting member
The investigative subcommittee shall retain special counsel, who has experience in the
investigate the complaint and submit to the subcommittee a report containing the special

Coverage Election
Nonverbal harassment — distribution or display (including written, hard copy or electronic

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
participate in the legislative process, whether in the State Capitol or another legislative setting,
making the complaint did not submit a formal written and sworn statement verifying the

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
complaining will be considered in the context of the legal obligation to act on the allegations and
or if further action is required. A record of each complaint and resolution shall be provided to
satisfactory or if further action is required. Disciplinary action against a member of the public
truthfulness of the allegations in the complaint, the special counsel must obtain such a written,

Employer Notification Requirements
offensive behavior and advise the offender to stop and to report the harassment as provided in
the right of the respondent to obtain information.
the investigation shall keep the complainant and respondent advised of the status of the

Posting Requirements
comment or display that a reasonable person would find insulting, intimidating, humiliating,
Nonverbal harassment — distribution or display (including written, hard copy or electronic
communications) of any graphic material, such as calendars, posters and cartoons, that is sexual

Recordkeeping Requirements
A report or complaint of harassment and documents related to any investigation shall be
maintained confidentially to the extent possible pursuant to applicable law, rule or policy,
including the Inspection of Public Records Act. The expressed wishes of the person reporting or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
prompt and appropriate action in response to complaints or knowledge of violations of this
found to be intentionally or recklessly dishonest or malicious will be deemed a violation of this

Sources
https://www.nmlegis.gov/publications/anti_harassment_policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:22:53
Original content length: 17,428 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
