New York Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
Sex discrimination, disability discrimination, and familial status discrimination are unlawful
pursuant to the New York State Human Rights Law § 296.1 (codified as N.Y. Executive Law,

Covered Employers
FOR EMPLOYERS IN NEW YORK STATE
seq.). The Human Rights Law applies to all employers, even if there is only one employee.
2015, chapter 369, to make explicit that employers are required to provide reasonable

Covered Employees
seq.). The Human Rights Law applies to all employers, even if there is only one employee.
accommodation applies to all needs and restrictions related to an employee’s pregnancy.
Pregnancy discrimination means taking any adverse action against an employee (or contract

What Should Employers Do?
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS
2015, chapter 369, to make explicit that employers are required to provide reasonable
accommodation of pregnancy-related conditions. Employers’ obligation to provide reasonable
that the medical needs of women who are pregnant, or who have recently given birth, must be

Training Requirements
written statements made to the Division or a court in the course of proceedings, regardless of the

Training Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Coverage Election
requiring involuntary leaves of absence will normally not be acceptable unless all other avenues

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
FOR EMPLOYERS IN NEW YORK STATE
pursuant to the New York State Human Rights Law § 296.1 (codified as N.Y. Executive Law,

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
2015, chapter 369, to make explicit that employers are required to provide reasonable
accommodation of pregnancy-related conditions. Employers’ obligation to provide reasonable
that the medical needs of women who are pregnant, or who have recently given birth, must be
Under the Human Rights Law, employers are required to reasonably accommodate the medical

Employer Notification Requirements
obligation to accommodation under this Law. Any medically-advised restrictions or needs
medically advised. Reasonable accommodation may also include modified or adjusted work
assignments, or time off during pregnancy or for childbirth recovery, as may be medically advised.

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
• filed a formal written complaint of pregnancy discrimination, either internally with

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Even if the alleged discrimination does not turn out to rise to the level of a violation of the

Sources
https://dhr.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2022/08/nysdhr-guidance-pregnancy-discrimination.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:24:50
Original content length: 9,976 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
