New Hampshire Harassment Training

Overview
for the investigation of any other type of discrimination prohibited by law.
corrective and/or disciplinary action shall be taken. This may include discharge

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
WHEREAS, all employees of the State of New Hampshire are entitled to work
WHEREAS, the Director of Personnel, the Department of Justice and the Governor's
treated in a confidential and sensitive manner; and encourage state employees to

What Should Employers Do?
policy shall govern the conduct of all employees of the executive branch of the
sexual harassment shall be clearly and regularly communicated to all state employees,
training. In addition, this policy shall be implemented through the complaint
investigation procedures set forth below. This policy shall also serve as a guideline

Training Requirements
both supervisory and non-supervisory, through periodic educational programs and
training. In addition, this policy shall be implemented through the complaint
investigated. Particular care shall be taken in the course of investigations to

Training Deadlines
thirty days. Upon completion, a written report shall be prepared and submitted to the
B. For all supervisory employees: All supervisory personnel shall annually participate

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
investigated. Particular care shall be taken in the course of investigations to
investigations shall be conducted with particular care to preserve the confidentiality
specific personnel actions must remain confidential.

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
An Order Updating The State of New Hampshire Policy On Sexual Harassment

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
a hostile work environment must be severe or pervasive. However, it is the intent of
in determining the level of appropriate corrective action required.
the investigator shall be from outside the complainant's agency. No employee shall be required
has reported sexual harassment, shall be required to report it to the Director of Personnel

Employer Notification Requirements
in the course of an investigation shall be advised of the necessity of confidentiality
advised of the findings reached on the complaint. If a violation of this policy is
found to have occurred, the complainant will be advised that appropriate corrective

Posting Requirements
pinching an individual's body; sexually explicit gestures; the display in the workplace
of sexually suggestive, sexually demeaning or pornographic objects, pictures, posters,
employees. Educational posters communicating the State's opposition to sexual harassment

Recordkeeping Requirements
to file a complaint with a supervisor who is hostile to that employee and/or who engages in

Penalties for Non-Compliance
advised of the findings reached on the complaint. If a violation of this policy is

Sources
https://www.das.nh.gov/hr/sexual-harassment.aspx

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:19:13
Original content length: 11,051 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
