North Dakota Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
some other specified time, who are required by law to make annual reports for any purpose to
each year to the proper officer. For the purpose of preparing such report, the year begins on the

Covered Employers
necessary for making proper records and for transacting any official business connected with
regarding public business, if the members attending one or more of the
(1) A chance or social gathering at which public business is not considered;

Covered Employees
A state official or state employee, in the exercise of that official's or employee's duties, may
or employee's parent by birth or adoption, spouse, son or daughter by birth or adoption,
official or employee assumed the supervisory capacity; nor to any temporary work arrangement

What Should Employers Do?
All county, township, and city officers, except such as are required to make their reports at
some other specified time, who are required by law to make annual reports for any purpose to
any state officer, shall prepare and transmit the same on or before the fifteenth day of August of
Upon the willful neglect of any public officer to make any report required by law, the officer

Training Requirements
(4) Training seminars at which no other public business is considered or
a political subdivision by the employee in the course of employment is exempt. As
under the control of the state board of higher education in the conduct of or as a result

Training Deadlines
same requester within seven days, the public entity may treat the requests as one
complaint is complete, but no longer than seventy-five calendar days from the date of
4. A law enforcement officer or prosecutor, within the scope of the employment of the

Qualified Trainers
44-04-05. Certified copies of papers on alien convicted of felony - Request by United
without charge, a certified copy of the complaint, information, or indictment, and the judgment

Special Requirements
Unless otherwise specifically provided by law, every officer elected or appointed under the
1. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, all records of a public entity are
2. Upon request for a copy of specific public records, any entity subject to subsection 1

Coverage Election
Unless otherwise specifically provided by law, every officer elected or appointed under the
person or through any electronic means, of:

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
any state officer, shall prepare and transmit the same on or before the fifteenth day of August of
44-04-03. Attorney general and state's attorney to prosecute officer for failure to make

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
All county, township, and city officers, except such as are required to make their reports at
some other specified time, who are required by law to make annual reports for any purpose to
Upon the willful neglect of any public officer to make any report required by law, the officer
44-04-07. Inventory required.

Employer Notification Requirements
or board to whom such report should be made promptly shall notify the attorney general or the
appears that that person is an alien, immediately shall notify the United States immigration
without charge, a certified copy of the complaint, information, or indictment, and the judgment

Posting Requirements
county, township, city in this state, having any evidence, knowledge, or notice of any violation of
entity's records must be posted on the door of the office of the public entity, if any.
materials, and equipment. The entity may charge for the actual cost of postage to mail

Recordkeeping Requirements
DUTIES, RECORDS, AND MEETINGS
and sentence, and any other record pertaining to the case of the convicted alien.
commission shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a complete and current inventory record

Penalties for Non-Compliance
44-04-02. Penalty for failure to make report.
44-04-06. Peace officers to report law violations.
county, township, city in this state, having any evidence, knowledge, or notice of any violation of
any laws of North Dakota shall investigate and seek evidence of the violation and the names of

Sources
https://ndlegis.gov/cencode/t44c04.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:28:50
Original content length: 96,733 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
