North Carolina Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
The purpose of this policy is to assist agency and university employers, current employees,
complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Pregnancy Discrimination Act, the

Covered Employers
The purpose of this policy is to assist agency and university employers, current employees,
factors such as an employer's size, financialresources, and thenature and structure of its
An employer is required to make a reasonable accommodation to the known disability of a

Covered Employees
disabilities can work without accommodation, other qualified applicants and employees
The purpose of this policy is to assist agency and university employers, current employees,
policy also prohibits retaliation against employees.

What Should Employers Do?
pregnant. If requested, reasonable accommodations must be provided to qualified employees
An employer is required to make a reasonable accommodation to the known disability of a
A covered employer is required to make a reasonable accommodation for the pregnancy of
from the position, nor is an employer required to lower quality or production standards to

Training Requirements
training materials, or policies, and providing qualified readers or interpreters such as

Training Deadlines
employee within a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 30 days from original
Government employee grievance policy within 15 calendar days of receiving the decision.

Qualified Trainers
It is the policy of the State of North Carolina to reasonably accommodate qualified
disabilities can work without accommodation, other qualified applicants and employees

Special Requirements
a. Discuss the purpose and the essential functions of the particular job involved.

Coverage Election
Select and implement the reasonable accommodation that is the most appropriate
given consideration, the employer is free to choose among reasonably effective

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
STATE HUMAN RESOURCES Equal Employment Opportunity
It is the policy of the State of North Carolina to reasonably accommodate qualified

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
pregnant. If requested, reasonable accommodations must be provided to qualified employees
An employer is required to make a reasonable accommodation to the known disability of a
A covered employer is required to make a reasonable accommodation for the pregnancy of
from the position, nor is an employer required to lower quality or production standards to

Employer Notification Requirements
providing a blind employee someone to read information posted on a bulletin board.
1. The employee shall inform their supervisor, EEO Officer, or HR Director or
1. The job applicant shall inform the supervisor, EEO Officer, or HR Director/Designee

Posting Requirements
providing a blind employee someone to read information posted on a bulletin board.

Recordkeeping Requirements
Americans with Disabilities Amendment Act (ADAA), and maintains equal opportunity in
has a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment.
breaks or allowing her to keep a water bottle at a workstation even though keeping

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://oshr.nc.gov/documents/files/reasonable-accommodation-policy/open

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:26:39
Original content length: 10,351 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
