North Dakota Pay Frequency & Payday Timing

Overview
lawful money of the United States; with checks, as that item is used in chapter 41-03, drawn on
regular paydays established in advance by the employer for the periods worked by the

Covered Employers
Whenever used in this chapter, "employer" includes every person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company, receiver or other officer of a court of the state,
Every employer shall pay all wages due to employees at least once each calendar month

Covered Employees
Every employer shall pay all wages due to employees at least once each calendar month
institution of the employee's choice; or, at the election of the employee when offered by the
employer, by delivery to the employee of a stored value card that meets the requirements of this

What Should Employers Do?
Every employer shall pay all wages due to employees at least once each calendar month
on regular agreed paydays designated in advance by the employer. Wages must be paid in
employer, by delivery to the employee of a stored value card that meets the requirements of this
section. A stored value card that is used by an employer to pay wages must be issued by a

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
on regular agreed paydays designated in advance by the employer. Wages must be paid in
34-14-03. Employees who are separated from payroll before paydays.
regular paydays established in advance by the employer for the periods worked by the

Qualified Trainers
those wages to the employee by certified mail at an address designated by the employee or as

Special Requirements
34-14-09.1. Interest on unpaid wages - Amount of recovery - Exception.

Coverage Election
institution of the employee's choice; or, at the election of the employee when offered by the

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
association, corporation, limited liability company, receiver or other officer of a court of the state,
provisions hereof, employing any person in this state.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
on regular agreed paydays designated in advance by the employer. Wages must be paid in
section. A stored value card that is used by an employer to pay wages must be issued by a
is used by an employer to pay wages must be a deposit that is insured by the federal deposit
a stored value card to an employee, an employer must have deposited with the issuer funds in

Employer Notification Requirements
In case of a dispute over wages, the employer shall give written notice to the employee of
inform the claimant of the opportunity for the claimant to pursue the claim in small
shall inform the claimant of the opportunity for the claimant to pursue the claim in

Posting Requirements
In case of a dispute over wages, the employer shall give written notice to the employee of
a. At the time of hiring, the employer provided the employee written notice of the
c. The employee gave the employer less than five days' written or verbal notice.

Recordkeeping Requirements
1. Advances paid to employees, other than undocumented cash.
attendance of a witness and the production of a book, record, document, data, or other
book, record, document, data, or other object.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
this chapter, investigate alleged violations of this chapter, and institute or cause to be
instituted actions for penalties and forfeitures related to violation of this chapter.
contract, for that employee, or any interest, penalty, or delinquency fee with respect to those
3. As provided under section 34-14-05, an employee may report a violation under this

Sources
https://ndlegis.gov/cencode/t34c14.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:28:17
Original content length: 15,338 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
