North Dakota Minimum Wage

Overview
directly youth-related and intended for educational purposes.
f. Actors or extras for a motion

Covered Employers
charitable organizations, not as employees and without contemplation of
employees of religious, nonprofit, or charitable organizations may volunteer
(4) The employer derives

Covered Employees
a. Employees of nonprofit camps that are
displace regular employees or infringe on the employment opportunities of
charitable organizations, not as employees and without contemplation of

What Should Employers Do?
directly associated with the incarceration program. The work must be performed
a. The student must complete
a. The disabled worker must complete the
existing supporting evidence of the disability must be provided.

Training Requirements
directly youth-related and intended for educational purposes.
criteria: (1) The training is similar to that
training is clearly for the benefit of the trainee.

Training Deadlines
be reevaluated by the employer every six months and adjusted accordingly; the
excess of forty hours in any one week. Paid holidays, paid time off, or sick
spent traveling on nonworking days during regular working hours is work time.

Qualified Trainers
instructor's signature.
m. Teachers, instructors, tutors, and

Special Requirements
The commissioner may issue a special license to pay less than
activity of an educational or learning nature. Special licenses to these
disabled workers under special certificates.

Coverage Election
b. Attendance is in fact voluntary.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
for the prison, jail, institution, state, or a political subdivision.
percent of the current state minimum wage.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
directly associated with the incarceration program. The work must be performed
a. The student must complete
a. The disabled worker must complete the
existing supporting evidence of the disability must be provided.

Employer Notification Requirements
employee had notice of such contract or policy provision.

Posting Requirements
employee had notice of such contract or policy provision.

Recordkeeping Requirements
wage, documentation of the employee's commensurate wage rate must be provided
to the commissioner and maintained by the employer. Commensurate wages are
application and documentation the commissioner may issue a license to pay a

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://regulations.justia.com/states/north-dakota/title-46/article-46-02/chapter-46-02-07/section-46-02-07-02/

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:27:54
Original content length: 15,410 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
