Ohio Voting / Civic Leave

Overview
use of poll worker leave is subject to terms and conditions established by the appointing authority
otherwise specified, employees using poll worker leave will remain in active pay status

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
To encourage agencies to implement a leave program for employees who wish to serve as a
determine whether poll worker leave will apply to its Agency employees. If the appointing
authority determines that its employees will be eligible for poll worker leave, this policy provides

What Should Employers Do?
A. Responsibility of the Appointing Authority of a State Agency, Board, or Commission
worker leave, the appointing authority must establish terms and conditions (a policy) for
the leave program (see model policy in Attachment 1). The policymust include a standard
multiple employees request to use the leave. This procedure must be consistently and

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
2. Additionally, within five working days of receiving payment from the local board of
six months beyond the date the employee utilized poll worker leave. Failure of the
Request for Leave form, ADM 4258 Within myOhio.gov via the “My Resources”

Qualified Trainers
(Agency) will allow its permanent full-time and part-time employees, certified by the local board of

Special Requirements
2. Additionally, the policy should also address the procedure by which an approval may be
needed to address Agency-specific issues.
General Election, Primary Electionor Special Electionare eligible to utilize poll worker leave.

Coverage Election
precinct election official on Election Day, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code (ORC) section 3501.28.
1. If the appointing authority of a state Agency chooses to permit an employee to use poll

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The Ohio Department of Administrative Services is the engine of state government, providing innovative solutions and
supporting the efficient operation of state agencies, boards, and commissions.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
A. Responsibility of the Appointing Authority of a State Agency, Board, or Commission
worker leave, the appointing authority must establish terms and conditions (a policy) for
the leave program (see model policy in Attachment 1). The policymust include a standard
multiple employees request to use the leave. This procedure must be consistently and

Employer Notification Requirements
supervisor’s “Remarks” section. The supervisor is responsible for notifying an employee when
the form isnot completed properly or when documentation is missing. Such notification shall be
approved leave. It is the employee’s responsibility to notify the board of elections if theemployee

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
determined from the verification documentation submitted by the employee (see section
“Other” on the written form, and document on the form that the request is for “Poll
E. Verification Documentation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
The first occurrence of a defined term in the policy is in bold, italic type, and is hyperlinked to the
D. Special Election. Any election other than those elections defined in other divisions of this

Sources
https://das.ohio.gov/wps/wcm/connect/gov/f0acaa70-766d-4b90-8963-a7b5b5cfbdff/HR-23+Poll+Worker+Leave+2023.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CONVERT_TO=url&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE.Z18_79GCH8013HMOA06A2E16IV2082-f0acaa70-766d-4b90-8963-a7b5b5cfbdff-oHdseEu

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:31:24
Original content length: 16,374 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
