Ohio Non-Compete Enforcement Rules

Overview
Ohio |Statewide Impact
"I am in favor of repealing non compete clauses in employment contracts. As a

Covered Employers
business formation. The FTC estimates that the final rule will result in 8,500
more new businesses each year, and $400-488 billion in increased wages
of 2017. Business was slow at the beginning of 2023 and I was not working so I

Covered Employees
freedom of workers to change jobs, increasing innovation, and fostering new
Estimated Increases in Total Annual and Average Worker Earnings by State (ftc.gov)
on the account ourselves in order to staff appropriately and get paid a fair

What Should Employers Do?
an employee. After 90 days they informed me that they require all employees to
powerful. They are unAmerican and must be outlawed, completely, totally and
of care that patients receive. In addition, non-compete clauses often require
board requirements, of which there are many. Radiology groups hide behind

Training Requirements
education I acquired in my field. These non competes need to be done away
“"I am writing to express my support for the proposed rule. I had to sign a noncompete agreement as a retail worker. There was no special training, no
unknowing professionals with little or no corporate experience. No training is

Training Deadlines
an employee. After 90 days they informed me that they require all employees to
months of working for the salon I chose to leave to go back to being an
months after leaving the salon they emailed me via their attorney a cease

Qualified Trainers
to many of my patients as I am the only board certified addiction specialist in
via certified mail. 3 weeks after that I was terminated when my old company

Special Requirements
to many of my patients as I am the only board certified addiction specialist in
“"I am writing to express my support for the proposed rule. I had to sign a noncompete agreement as a retail worker. There was no special training, no
Additional Support from Ohio

Coverage Election
are prevented from doing so they have to choose between moving their entire
choose which matters the least between staying in the same city, staying in the

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Ohio |Statewide Impact
Estimated Increases in Total Annual and Average Worker Earnings by State (ftc.gov)

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
powerful. They are unAmerican and must be outlawed, completely, totally and
families if they want to switch practice environments where they must
industry and due to that I must relocate to another state but my current
"Laborers must be protected, not held hostage by employers when the need to

Employer Notification Requirements
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: 394 of 410 OH Commenters Support
resigned to start my own business. My former employer advised me not to inspect
an employee. After 90 days they informed me that they require all employees to

Posting Requirements
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: 394 of 410 OH Commenters Support
give them 2 weeks notice resignation and the same last day of my 2 weeks
notice a letter was send to me and my new employer that i have non-compete

Recordkeeping Requirements
redistribute the workforce and keep our small business alive. We are outside of the
with good plan for the future to keep them rather than to chain them with a non
"There should be NO noncompete clause. It is just another way to keep health

Penalties for Non-Compliance
and desist letter stating I am in violation for that 1 mile. My clients have
you out, that is fine. Noncompete clauses are an unfair restrictions on workers
documentation to acknowledge the punishments for spying for foreign nations."
wish that the rules include fines for companies that violate this rule or fail to

Sources
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/Noncompete-Rule-Constituent-Support--Ohio.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:30:39
Original content length: 215,628 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
