Oklahoma Workplace Safety Requirements (OSHA or state-level)

Overview
The Oklahoma Occupational Health & Safety Standards Act (OOHSSA) requires all public sector employers with one or more employees to
● restricted work activity or job transfer, or

Covered Employers
OFFICIAL STATE BUSINESS
The Oklahoma Occupational Health & Safety Standards Act (OOHSSA) requires all public sector employers with one or more employees to
occurring in their workplace. Employers must keep

Covered Employees
The Oklahoma Department of Labor’s Public Employee Occupational Safety &
The Oklahoma Occupational Health & Safety Standards Act (OOHSSA) requires all public sector employers with one or more employees to
employees are aware of the injuries and illnesses

What Should Employers Do?
The Oklahoma Occupational Health & Safety Standards Act (OOHSSA) requires all public sector employers with one or more employees to
category. At the end of the year, you must post the
occurring in their workplace. Employers must keep
supervision of all staff is the responsibility of one

Training Requirements
instructions on the forms.
including time to review the instruction, search and gather the data needed, and complete and review the
Instructions: All establishments covered by Part 1904 must complete the questions below, even if no work-related injuries or illnesses occurred during the year. Remember to review the OK300 Log to

Training Deadlines
provided within 4 business hours of the initial
● days away from work,
Within 7 calendar days after you receive

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
record specific details about what happened and
greater. Oklahoma Exception: Under 380:40-1-5,
occurring in the workplace unless an exception

Coverage Election
tooth, amputation, insect bite, electrocution or
thermal, chemical, electrical or radiation burn.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
OFFICIAL STATE BUSINESS
employee is no longer employed by the State

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
category. At the end of the year, you must post the
occurring in their workplace. Employers must keep
supervision of all staff is the responsibility of one
injury and illness records and they must be

Employer Notification Requirements
IMPORTANT NOTIFICATION BOOKLET
(See below for more information about first aid.)
information about a case, decide if the case is

Posting Requirements
category. At the end of the year, you must post the
When must you post the Summary?
You must post the Summary only -- not the Log

Recordkeeping Requirements
Recordkeeping Year 20XX
A copy of the new recordkeeping forms package is included for your convenience.
An Overview: Recording Work-Related Injuries

Penalties for Non-Compliance
illnesses that are significant (as defined below) or
Noise-induced hearing loss is defined for
Section 3: Contact Information and Certification (Knowingly falsifying this document may result in fines, legal actions, or both.)

Sources
https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/labor/documents/safety-and-health/workplace-safety/peosh/Public%20Sector%20Occupational%20Injury%20and%20Illness%20Reporting%20Guidelines%20Rev.%2020230330.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:33:20
Original content length: 31,917 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
