Oregon Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
factors, such as a lack of demographic diversity in the datasets on which
in developing regulation and guidance, (4) enacting comprehensive privacy laws

Covered Employers
organizations have raised concerns
ISO International Organization for Standardization
At the same time, several organizations have raised concerns about the

Covered Employees
Appendix IV GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments 61
patient and staff identity verification. Biometric identification technologies
medication by patients and staff. For example, some pharmacies require

What Should Employers Do?
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
requires 1-2 hours for processing.
contact fingerprint records requires further study. Fingerprint matching
these use cases include biometrics as an option, and other cases require

Training Requirements
or guidance, and (5) providing technology users with additional training and
Commerce, Education, Homeland Security (DHS), Justice (DOJ), Labor,
example, human experience and training can influence image quality.

Training Deadlines
4See, for example, Kashmir Hill, ”Eight Months Pregnant and Arrested After False Facial
define the zones for analysis within the coordinate system. Similar to
published within since 2023.34 They noted that the findings of studies

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
the body of research conducted in a laboratory setting, particularly for facial
or guidance, and (5) providing technology users with additional training and
Accuracy Has Improved, Particularly for Facial Recognition, but

Coverage Election
Selected stakeholders provided examples of positive and negative effects
included false arrests and subjecting communities to surveillance. The selected

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
United States Government Accountability Office
United States Government Accountability Office

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
accountability in government. Federal agencies are generally required to disclose any

Employer Notification Requirements
Considerations to Address Information Gaps and
information about the use of the technologies, (3) applying a risk-based approach
View GAO-24-106293. For more information,

Posting Requirements
children, and assisting in mental health situations or post-event
technologies are deployed without advance notice or opportunity for

Recordkeeping Requirements
documents. GAO also interviewed
reports, and industry documents. We searched for documents that
During our initial review of documents, we found minimal discussion of

Penalties for Non-Compliance
band of the electromagnetic spectrum. The systems then define the
define the zones for analysis within the coordinate system. Similar to
11Under federal law, a fusion center is defined as a collaborative effort of two or more
capture their fingerprints. Women generally have finer ridges on their

Sources
https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-24-106293.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:34:54
Original content length: 100,000 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
