Oregon Paid Sick Leave

Overview
- Up to two additional weeks of paid leave for limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth or a related medical condition, including lactation
[Paid Leave](https://paidleave.oregon.gov/) and should be your first contact for questions on filing or administering a claim, the Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI) investigates complaints regarding job protections, suspected retaliation, and discrimination.

Covered Employers
Paid Leave generally protects an employee’s job and role when they take Paid Leave if they’ve worked for the same employer for at least 90 consecutive days.
Employers may not discriminate or retaliate against an eligible employee for invoking rights (meaning asking about or applying for Paid Leave) under the Paid Leave program.
If you think your employer is violating job protections under this law or you experience retaliation or discrimination, you can make a

Covered Employees
Paid Leave Oregon (Paid Leave) is a program that provides eligible employees:
Paid Leave pays employees a percentage of their base year wages (up to 100%) while on leave. Your base year is the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters before the start date of your Paid Leave benefit year.
Employees have the right to continue health care benefits while on Paid Leave.

What Should Employers Do?
No. If you work for a covered employer, you cannot opt out of Paid Leave. A covered employer is required to withhold and remit a small percentage of your wages to support Paid Leave benefits. If you are not a covered employee, your employer does not withhold or remit contributions on your behalf and you cannot receive benefits.
Your employer may require you to provide written notice (including an explanation of the need for leave) up to 30 days before you begin leave. For unexpected events that create a need for family, medical, or safe leave, you must tell your employer within 24 hours of starting your leave and give your employer written notice within 3 days after starting your leave. If you don’t give notice required to your employer, Paid Leave may reduce your first full weekly benefit payment by 25%.
That depends. Your employer generally needs to continue providing any health care benefits you had before you began leave. That said, they may also require you to continue paying any portion of the premium you would have paid if you were working.
In general, employers must restore you to the position you held before taking leave, even if they choose to fill your position with another worker in your absence.

Training Requirements
Interested in periodic updates on employment law and BOLI training opportunities? Submit your email address from the " [Subscribe for Updates](http://www.oregon.gov/www.oregon.gov#footer)" box at the bottom of this page.
- A participant in a work training program as part of a state or federal assistance program
- A participant in a work-study program that provides students in secondary or post-secondary educational institutions with employment opportunities for financial assistance or vocational training

Training Deadlines
Paid Leave generally protects an employee’s job and role when they take Paid Leave if they’ve worked for the same employer for at least 90 consecutive days.
[Frances Online](https://frances.oregon.gov/) platform. You can start an application for Paid Leave up to 30 days before you begin your leave or up to 30 days after your first absence (extended up to one year under certain circumstances).
Your employer may require you to provide written notice (including an explanation of the need for leave) up to 30 days before you begin leave. For unexpected events that create a need for family, medical, or safe leave, you must tell your employer within 24 hours of starting your leave and give your employer written notice within 3 days after starting your leave. If you don’t give notice required to your employer, Paid Leave may reduce your first full weekly benefit payment by 25%.

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
- Up to two additional weeks of paid leave for limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth or a related medical condition, including lactation
Yes, Paid Leave benefits are in addition to any paid sick time under ORS 653.606, vacation leave, or other paid leave you may have earned from your employer. You have a right to use any of these leaves while receiving Paid Leave benefits up to full wage replacement. Additionally, your employer may choose to authorize paid leave beyond full wage replacement. Your employer generally gets to choose the order of use when multiple other paid leave banks are available.
Additionally, you may choose to authorize use of other paid leaves beyond full wage replacement.

Coverage Election
[OAR 471-070](https://secure.sos.state.or.us/oard/displayDivisionRules.action?selectedDivision=6880)
You can choose coverage if you’re self-employed or an independent contractor, and a Tribal government employer may opt into the program.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
[whd@boli.state.or.us](mailto:whd@boli.state.or.us) to get help.
[OAR 471-070](https://secure.sos.state.or.us/oard/displayDivisionRules.action?selectedDivision=6880)

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
No. If you work for a covered employer, you cannot opt out of Paid Leave. A covered employer is required to withhold and remit a small percentage of your wages to support Paid Leave benefits. If you are not a covered employee, your employer does not withhold or remit contributions on your behalf and you cannot receive benefits.
Your employer may require you to provide written notice (including an explanation of the need for leave) up to 30 days before you begin leave. For unexpected events that create a need for family, medical, or safe leave, you must tell your employer within 24 hours of starting your leave and give your employer written notice within 3 days after starting your leave. If you don’t give notice required to your employer, Paid Leave may reduce your first full weekly benefit payment by 25%.
In general, employers must restore you to the position you held before taking leave, even if they choose to fill your position with another worker in your absence.
Paid Leave can also help with questions about quarterly contribution obligations and small employer assistance grants.

Employer Notification Requirements
[workplace poster](https://paidleave.oregon.gov/resources/resources.html#:~:text=Model%20Notice%20%28Poster%29)
What notice do I have to give my employer?
Your employer may require you to provide written notice (including an explanation of the need for leave) up to 30 days before you begin leave. For unexpected events that create a need for family, medical, or safe leave, you must tell your employer within 24 hours of starting your leave and give your employer written notice within 3 days after starting your leave. If you don’t give notice required to your employer, Paid Leave may reduce your first full weekly benefit payment by 25%.

Posting Requirements
[OAR 471-070](https://secure.sos.state.or.us/oard/displayDivisionRules.action?selectedDivision=6880)
[workplace poster](https://paidleave.oregon.gov/resources/resources.html#:~:text=Model%20Notice%20%28Poster%29)
- A participant in a work-study program that provides students in secondary or post-secondary educational institutions with employment opportunities for financial assistance or vocational training

Recordkeeping Requirements
[SB 1515](https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2024R1/Downloads/MeasureDocument/SB1515/Enrolled) (2023)
Keeping your employer informed about your need for protected time is your best bet to making sure you don’t miss out on other protections that may be available to you. These include
Finally, keep in mind that depending on the circumstances, other laws may provide job protections prior to 90 days of employment. For example, you may permit employees to take sick leave prior to 90 days. If the reason for leave was a workplace injury, reemployment or reinstatement may apply even for new employees. Likewise, there is not a 90-day waiting period for leaves or other reasonable accommodations extended as a result of a pregnancy or disability.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Likely so. While OFLA and Paid Leave cannot, by law, run at the same time, an employee’s leave may be covered by other protections. Here, FMLA may not require reinstatement in every circumstance, but Paid Leave provides a more protective standard. In order to avoid violations under either law, you may need to comply with the standard that is most beneficial to the employee.

Sources
https://www.oregon.gov/boli/workers/pages/paid-leave-oregon-protections.aspx

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:33:38
Original content length: 17,760 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
