Pennsylvania Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
analyzing the impact of AI use in K-12 classrooms. The
What factors should schools consider before

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
testimony, studies, and data generated from third parties. Advisory reports are reviewed by Commission staff only for legal sufficiency
students and staff alike to critically evaluate AI generated

What Should Employers Do?
regarding student privacy, bias, and misinformation must be
It is important to recognize that these tools must be used to
Schools must demand rigorous evaluation prior to
biased data. Schools must address this by actively teaching

Training Requirements
assist with a variety of tasks such as personalizing education
educational experience, and over-reliance on technology can
The U.S. Department of Education should:

Training Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
implemented—especially in settings with children.
specifically designed to create the impression of thought
particularly high risk of harm and may run afoul of

Coverage Election
Recommendations (selected)

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The United States Commission on Civil Rights maintains 56 Advisory Committees, one for each state and territory, and the District of
Columbia. Each committee is composed of citizen volunteers familiar with local and state civil rights issues. The members assist the

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
regarding student privacy, bias, and misinformation must be
It is important to recognize that these tools must be used to
Schools must demand rigorous evaluation prior to
biased data. Schools must address this by actively teaching

Employer Notification Requirements
regarding student privacy, bias, and misinformation must be
promote misinformation and bias. It may also
Commission with its factfinding, investigative, and information dissemination functions.

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
The United States Commission on Civil Rights maintains 56 Advisory Committees, one for each state and territory, and the District of

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://www.usccr.gov/files/2025-01/policy-brief_2024-ai-in-education_pa.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:36:43
Original content length: 9,192 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
