Pennsylvania Paid Family / Medical Leave (PFML)

Overview
• Meets the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) eligibility requirements
1. Overtime – YPAR does NOT count as hours worked for the purposes of computing overtime.

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
Paid parental leave is available for Commonwealth employees for the birth, adoption, or
foster care placement of a child with an eligible employee for events that occurred on or
• Full-time/part-time permanent employees that are represented by a union that have agreed

What Should Employers Do?
• Meets the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) eligibility requirements
o Full-time employees must have worked 1250 hours during the previous 12-month
o Part-time employees must have worked at least 900 hours during the previous 12-
• Absences must be used in full day increments

Training Requirements
instructions/screenshots at the end of this document.
report to FMLA Specialists. Reference instructions/screenshots at the end of this document.

Training Deadlines
o Continuously employed by the Commonwealth for the immediate twelve (12) months
• Quota expires 6 months from the date of the qualifying event
2/15/2024, however no more than 6 weeks of Paid Parental Leave may be used within a

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
after October 15, 2020. This guide is designed to assist FMLA Specialists with systems
*Absence workflow routes to FMLA Specialist for approval and processing.
2. Additional Annual for No Sick Leave Usage – YPAR does NOT count as sick leave usage.

Coverage Election
Select Absences Quotas
selection section. Select

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
agreement states otherwise; hours above standard 7.5/8.0-hour schedule may be charged

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
o Full-time employees must have worked 1250 hours during the previous 12-month
o Part-time employees must have worked at least 900 hours during the previous 12-
• Absences must be used in full day increments
User must remove remaining quota by updating the YPAR quota entitlement

Employer Notification Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Posting Requirements
Trigger – Run Time Evaluation Messages Display on a regular basis for XG message.

Recordkeeping Requirements
Tips and Tricks – following are some tips to keep in mind regarding paid parental leave:
instructions/screenshots at the end of this document.
report to FMLA Specialists. Reference instructions/screenshots at the end of this document.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://www.pa.gov/content/dam/copapwp-pagov/en/hrmoa/documents/alerts-and-transactions/documents/spf-fmla-alerts/paid%20parental%20leave%20resource%20guide.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:35:34
Original content length: 7,274 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
