Rhode Island E-Verify / Employment Verification

Overview
Labor Laws and the Services
INTRODUCTION TO EMPLOYER HANDBOOK AND DIGEST OF LABOR LAWS

Covered Employers
Available to Employers
INTRODUCTION TO EMPLOYER HANDBOOK AND DIGEST OF LABOR LAWS
Resource Investment Council, and the Governor’s Workforce Board-RI. This publication is designed to provide employers with the

Covered Employees
workforce. These include programs such as Unemployment Insurance, Temporary Disability Insurance, Workers’ Compensation,
Injured Worker Services, Workforce Regulation and Safety, and Workforce Development Services offered through the netWORKri
The Department administers the Unemployment Insurance (UI) program, which provides benefits to eligible jobless workers. The UI

What Should Employers Do?
information they need to understand and meet the requirements placed on them by these programs.
We hope that this Handbook will help employers understand the many requirements, programs and services administered by the
Information Employers Must Post 4
Required Employer Payroll Records 5

Training Requirements
The Department of Labor and Training administers a number of programs for the protection and advancement of Rhode Island’s
common to federally funded training programs.
Career Centers. The available programs and services include: job development and training, job recruitment, screening, and referral as

Training Deadlines
The cash value of gifts (turkeys, hams, candy, food baskets, flowers, etc.) given to workers by employers on holidays, weddings, or
Employers must pay the Employment Security Tax quarterly. This tax is based on each employee’s wages up to the annually computed
Administrator will determine the amount due. This amount shall finally and irrevocably be fixed unless the employer shall, within 20

Qualified Trainers
Payments must be made only by certified check or money order which clearly indicates that it is for a payment of a voluntary contribution. All payments must accompany a Voluntary Contribution Application and include the employer registration number (ERN) in
When this Department receives a worker’s claim for TDI benefits, we must contact the claimant’s qualified healthcare providers and

Special Requirements
well as special services for Veterans through dedicated representatives. There are no fees charged to either the employer or the job
Specific information on various tax issues is contained throughout this Handbook, and at the Employer Tax Section website at:
With few exceptions, employers of one or more workers in Rhode Island are subject to the Employment Security and the Temporary

Coverage Election
instrumentalities, have the option to elect Temporary Disability Insurance coverage for individuals or specific classes of individuals
total cash wages in any calendar quarter, may choose to become subject. Individuals or specific classes of individuals employed by

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The State of Rhode Island and local governments are subject to Employment Security. The State and local governments, or their
Employment Outside the United States

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Information Employers Must Post 4
Required Employer Payroll Records 5
required to report employment and to pay contributions on any taxable wages earned by students.
religious orders in the exercise of duties required by such orders.

Employer Notification Requirements
information they need to understand and meet the requirements placed on them by these programs.
The Department also oversees a number of workforce regulation and safety programs. Information on RI’s labor laws are outlined in
Labor market reports, studies, and information designed to assist business, labor, government, education and job seekers are

Posting Requirements
Information Employers Must Post 4
Notice of Benefits Paid to Workers 12
The Department also issues a Registration Certificate and a Notice to all Employees (Form TX-6) to be displayed on the business

Recordkeeping Requirements
Required Employer Payroll Records 5
Unemployment and Temporary Disability Insurance. While a claim for TDI benefits can be filed from anywhere, a claim for
Unemployment Insurance may only be filed in the United States, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, or Canada.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
fine of not more than $5,000 and/or imprisonment for up to one year. Each day of business so conducted constitutes a separate
A penalty of $25 is assessed for failure to submit a timely contribution report. In addition, a penalty of 10% of the amount due is
assessed for failure to remit timely Employment Security, TDI or Job Development Fund taxes.Apenalty of $25 per month will be
paid. This penalty and interest cannot be waived for any reason.

Sources
https://dlt.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur571/files/documents/pdf/wrs/laws.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:38:18
Original content length: 100,000 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
