South Carolina Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
South Carolina Laws and Regulations
This section includes selected state laws and regulations related to security, data privacy and security.

Covered Employers
Breach of security of business data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 39-1-90
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Summary of HIPAA Privacy Rule) - Protects individually identifiable health information held by covered entities and their business associates and gives patients an array of rights with respect to that information. HIPAA
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) - Sets requirements designed to ensure that all companies that process, store. or transmit credit card information maintain a secure environment. The law applies to any organization with customers who pay them directly using a credit card or debit card. PCI-DSS

Covered Employees
Not specified in available documentation

What Should Employers Do?
Breach of security of business data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 39-1-90
Breach of security of state agency data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 1-11-490
Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) CIPA imposes certain requirements on schools or libraries that receive discounts for Internet access or internal connections through the E-rate program. Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA)
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act - Requires financial institutions, which offer products to consumers, to explain their information sharing practices to their customers and to safeguard sensitive data. GLBA

Training Requirements
SC Department of Education Data Use and Governance Policy SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 59-1-490
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act - Protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. Family Educational Rights and Privacy, FERPA

Training Deadlines
U.S. Office of Management and Budget - Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) The OIRA, a statutory part of the OMB within the Executive Office of the President, is the U.S. government’s central authority for the review of Executive Branch regulations, approval of government information collections, establishment of government statistical practices, and coordination of federal privacy policy. OIRA

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Freedom of Information Act - Provides the public with the right, and a process, by which to request access to records from any federal agency (with nine exceptions, such as personal privacy, national security, and law enforcement). FOIA

Coverage Election
This section includes selected state laws and regulations related to security, data privacy and security.
This section includes selected federal laws and regulations related to security, data privacy and security.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
This section includes selected state laws and regulations related to security, data privacy and security.
Breach of security of state agency data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 1-11-490

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
U.S. Department of Homeland Security – Privacy Office DHS Privacy Office was the first statutorily required privacy office in any federal agency. DHS Privacy Office

Employer Notification Requirements
For further guidance of general information security knowledge, standards, guidelines, and tools, please see the following resources:
Breach of security of business data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 39-1-90
Breach of security of state agency data; notification requirements; penalties SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Section 1-11-490

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Public Records SC Code of Laws 1976, as amended, Sections 30-1-10 30-1-180
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act - Protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. Family Educational Rights and Privacy, FERPA
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Freedom of Information Act - Provides the public with the right, and a process, by which to request access to records from any federal agency (with nine exceptions, such as personal privacy, national security, and law enforcement). FOIA

Penalties for Non-Compliance
International Association of Privacy Professionals A not-for-profit association with a mission to define, support and improve the privacy profession globally. IAPP

Sources
https://ed.sc.gov/data/data-security-privacy/resources/

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:40:24
Original content length: 5,667 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
