Tennessee Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
Background Check Laws: Tennessee
by Ashley Robinson Li and Robert W. Horton, Bass, Berry & Sims, with Practical Law Labor & Employment

Covered Employers
A Q&A guide to background check and employment reference law for private employers in
Tennessee. This Q&A addresses employers’ obligations when conducting criminal and noncriminal background checks and penalties for violating these laws. Federal, local, or municipal
• Identify which employers are covered.

Covered Employees
• Identify which employees are covered (for
example, all employees or only those in specific
for Employees of Childcare Programs:

What Should Employers Do?
Tennessee. This Q&A addresses employers’ obligations when conducting criminal and noncriminal background checks and penalties for violating these laws. Federal, local, or municipal
law may impose additional or different requirements. Answers to questions can be compared
Criminal Background Checks Required
Employees of childcare programs also must undergo

Training Requirements
• A program operated by a local board of education.
• A federally funded early childhood education
The Tennessee Department of Education, Tennessee

Training Deadlines
the conviction to their employer within seven days
knowingly fail to disclose the conviction within
seven days. (T.C.A. § 49-5-413(d)(3)(C)(i), (ii).)

Qualified Trainers
qualified immunity if the employer provides truthful,

Special Requirements
law may impose additional or different requirements. Answers to questions can be compared
example, all employees or only those in specific
For additional requirements for contractors, see

Coverage Election
an employer chooses to do so, the employer is
• Any electronic communications device, account,

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Status: Law stated as of 17 Jan 2025 | Jurisdiction: Tennessee, United States
across a number of jurisdictions (see Background Check Laws: State Q&A Tool).

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Tennessee. This Q&A addresses employers’ obligations when conducting criminal and noncriminal background checks and penalties for violating these laws. Federal, local, or municipal
Criminal Background Checks Required
Employees of childcare programs also must undergo
Covered employers must provide applicants

Employer Notification Requirements
verifying the accuracy of criminal violation information.
to provide notice to applicants or
information an employer may collect. Unless the

Posting Requirements
to provide notice to applicants or
obligations to provide notice to applicants or

Recordkeeping Requirements
This document is published by Practical Law and can be found at: content.next.westlaw.com/9-519-0222
background checks or driving records).
• Agree to release all investigative records to the

Penalties for Non-Compliance
verifying the accuracy of criminal violation information.
violation of public policy, but the employee must
penalties for violations of the law.
penalties for violations.

Sources
https://www.bassberry.com/wp-content/uploads/tennessee-background-check-laws-employer-compliance.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:43:37
Original content length: 27,877 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
