Texas Prevailing Wage Laws (public contracts)

Overview
SUBTITLE F. STATE AND LOCAL CONTRACTS AND FUND MANAGEMENT
(A) for a contract for a public work awarded by the state, the political subdivision of the state in which the public work is located:

Covered Employers
(b) This chapter does not apply to work done directly by a public utility company under an order of a public authority.

Covered Employees
(3) "Worker" includes a laborer or mechanic.
Sec. 2258.003. LIABILITY. An officer, agent, or employee of a public body is not liable in a civil action for any act or omission implementing or enforcing this chapter unless the action was made in bad faith.
Sec. 2258.021. RIGHT TO BE PAID PREVAILING WAGE RATES. (a) A worker employed on a public work by or on behalf of the state or a political subdivision of the state shall be paid:

What Should Employers Do?
Sec. 2258.021. RIGHT TO BE PAID PREVAILING WAGE RATES. (a) A worker employed on a public work by or on behalf of the state or a political subdivision of the state shall be paid:
Sec. 2258.022. DETERMINATION OF PREVAILING WAGE RATES. (a) For a contract for a public work awarded by a political subdivision of the state, the public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages in the locality in which the public work is to be performed for each craft or type of worker needed to execute the contract and the prevailing rate for legal holiday and overtime work by:
(b) This subsection applies only to a public work located in a county bordering the United Mexican States or in a county adjacent to a county bordering the United Mexican States. For a contract for a public work awarded by the state, the public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages in the locality in which the public work is to be performed for each craft or type of worker needed to execute the contract and the prevailing rate for legal holiday and overtime work as follows. The public body shall conduct a survey of the wages received by classes of workers employed on projects of a character similar to the contract work both statewide and in the political subdivision of the state in which the public work is to be performed. The public body shall also consider the prevailing wage rate as determined by the United States Department of Labor in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. Section 276a et seq.), and its subsequent amendments, but only if the survey used to determine that rate was conducted within a three-year period preceding the date the public body calls for bids for the public work. The public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages in the locality based on the higher of:
(c) The public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages as a sum certain, expressed in dollars and cents.

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
(b) This subsection applies only to a public work located in a county bordering the United Mexican States or in a county adjacent to a county bordering the United Mexican States. For a contract for a public work awarded by the state, the public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages in the locality in which the public work is to be performed for each craft or type of worker needed to execute the contract and the prevailing rate for legal holiday and overtime work as follows. The public body shall conduct a survey of the wages received by classes of workers employed on projects of a character similar to the contract work both statewide and in the political subdivision of the state in which the public work is to be performed. The public body shall also consider the prevailing wage rate as determined by the United States Department of Labor in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. Section 276a et seq.), and its subsequent amendments, but only if the survey used to determine that rate was conducted within a three-year period preceding the date the public body calls for bids for the public work. The public body shall determine the general prevailing rate of per diem wages in the locality based on the higher of:
(2) confinement in jail for a term not to exceed six months; or

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
SUBTITLE F. STATE AND LOCAL CONTRACTS AND FUND MANAGEMENT
(A) for a contract for a public work awarded by the state, the political subdivision of the state in which the public work is located:

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
(2) withhold money forfeited or required to be withheld under this chapter from the payments to the contractor under the contract, except that the public body may not withhold money from other than the final payment without a determination by the public body that there is good cause to believe that the contractor has violated this chapter.
(b) A public body must make its determination under Subsection (a) before the 31st day after the date the public body receives the information.
Sec. 2258.053. ARBITRATION REQUIRED FOR UNRESOLVED ISSUE. (a) An issue relating to an alleged violation of Section [2258.023](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/GetStatute.aspx?Code=GV&Value=2258.023), including a penalty owed to a public body or an affected worker, shall be submitted to binding arbitration in accordance with the Texas General Arbitration Act (Article 224 et seq., Revised Statutes) if the contractor or subcontractor and any affected worker do not resolve the issue by agreement before the 15th day after the date the public body makes its initial determination under Section [2258.052](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/GetStatute.aspx?Code=GV&Value=2258.052).
(b) If the persons required to arbitrate under this section do not agree on an arbitrator before the 11th day after the date that arbitration is required under Subsection (a), a district court shall appoint an arbitrator on the petition of any of the persons.

Employer Notification Requirements
Sec. 2258.052. COMPLAINT; INITIAL DETERMINATION. (a) On receipt of information, including a complaint by a worker, concerning an alleged violation of Section [2258.023](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/GetStatute.aspx?Code=GV&Value=2258.023) by a contractor or subcontractor, a public body shall make an initial determination as to whether good cause exists to believe that the violation occurred.
(b) A public body must make its determination under Subsection (a) before the 31st day after the date the public body receives the information.
(c) A public body shall notify in writing the contractor or subcontractor and any affected worker of its initial determination.

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Sec. 2258.024. RECORDS. (a) A contractor and subcontractor shall keep a record showing:
(b) The record shall be open at all reasonable hours to inspection by the officers and agents of the public body.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Sec. 2258.023. PREVAILING WAGE RATES TO BE PAID BY CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR; PENALTY. (a) The contractor who is awarded a contract by a public body or a subcontractor of the contractor shall pay not less than the rates determined under Section [2258.022](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/GetStatute.aspx?Code=GV&Value=2258.022) to a worker employed by it in the execution of the contract.
(b) A contractor or subcontractor who violates this section shall pay to the state or a political subdivision of the state on whose behalf the contract is made, $60 for each worker employed for each calendar day or part of the day that the worker is paid less than the wage rates stipulated in the contract. A public body awarding a contract shall specify this penalty in the contract.
(e) A municipality is entitled to collect a penalty under this section only if the municipality has a population of more than 10,000.
(1) take cognizance of complaints of all violations of this chapter committed in the execution of the contract; and

Sources
https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/Docs/GV/htm/GV.2258.htm

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:45:49
Original content length: 14,976 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
