Texas Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
that attract job creators and spur economic growth. Employers like you continue to lead the
recognition for the State of Texas’ exceptional economy. In fact, Chief Executive Magazine in

Covered Employers
Joe Esparza, Commissioner Representing Employers
Especially for Texas Employers
Especially for Texas Employers

Covered Employees
herein is not uniform throughout the agencies and courts enforcing the laws; indeed, even agency employees and
Employer Commissioner’s legal staff about a particular situation: 1-800-832-9394, (512) 463-2826, or via e-mail at
staff about a case. Employers may also call the TWC Wage and Hour Department regarding the Texas Payday Law

What Should Employers Do?
entrepreneurs and employers must operate their businesses with utmost integrity and respect
The State of Texas has a responsibility to provide employers with the tools required to
business presented many challenges and required many of you to adapt and overcome obstacles in
case must be decided on an individual basis, it is not always safe to assume that a particular case will result in a

Training Requirements
VIII. EMPLOYMENT LAW EXAMPLES AND SAMPLE TRAINING MATERIALS
of issuance; work-related education and training,
negligence, failing to follow instructions, failing to

Training Deadlines
the Texas Guidebook for Employers is a vital resource. Within this guidebook, you will find valuable
Reporting office within 20 days of hiring.
• Get I-9 information on all new hires within 3

Qualified Trainers
determine who is the best-qualified applicant, do not
with qualified employment law counsel regarding

Special Requirements
Especially for Texas Employers
Especially for Texas Employers
recognition for the State of Texas’ exceptional economy. In fact, Chief Executive Magazine in

Coverage Election
Our state’s elected leadership have put a lot of effort into ensuring that Texas businesses can
Selection Procedures” at https://www.eeoc.gov/

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
For generations, the State of Texas has cultivated an extraordinary economic climate allowing
recognition for the State of Texas’ exceptional economy. In fact, Chief Executive Magazine in

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
entrepreneurs and employers must operate their businesses with utmost integrity and respect
The State of Texas has a responsibility to provide employers with the tools required to
business presented many challenges and required many of you to adapt and overcome obstacles in
case must be decided on an individual basis, it is not always safe to assume that a particular case will result in a

Employer Notification Requirements
day-to-day business operations and for acquiring immediate information and assistance that
information on a variety of workplace issues, including important state and federal laws, key employer
contact information, unemployment and tax information, and samples of resource materials as well.

Posting Requirements
POST OFFICE BOX 12428 AUSTIN, TEXAS 78711 (512) 463-2000 (VOICE)/DIAL 7-1-1 FOR RELAY SERVICES
IV. POST-EMPLOYMENT ISSUES
Unemployment Insurance Law - Dealing With Claim Notices ................................................... ..262

Recordkeeping Requirements
666,000 Texas employers and 2.6 million small businesses across our great state. Together, let’s keep
claim is filed or an appeal is concluded, and only the claim investigator, appeal hearing officer, the three-member
situation should keep in mind that any sample policy or form such as the ones available in the book would need

Penalties for Non-Compliance
be viewed by the EEOC as a violation of disability
recordkeeping violation, but also potential evidence
do so - that would be a violation of the Employee
information,’ as defined by GINA, includes an

Sources
https://www.twc.texas.gov/sites/default/files/commissioners/docs/texas-guidebook-for-employers-2024.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:45:31
Original content length: 100,000 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
