Texas Paid Sick Leave

Overview
Pursuant to state law and to comply with records-management guidelines, the Office of
“Leave-Earned Action” must be entered into the electronic leave system (unless

Covered Employers
shall be transferred to the employee’s leave balance at the new state employer.
not run past the starting date at the new state employer.
avoid unduly disrupting business operations, subject to the approval of the employee’s

Covered Employees
the Attorney General (OAG) shall maintain leave information on each employee. This
Responsibilities: Employees
• Every OAG employee is responsible for ensuring that all absences and extra hours

What Should Employers Do?
the Attorney General (OAG) shall maintain leave information on each employee. This
• All leave must be entered in 15-minute increments.
“Leave-Earned Action” must be entered into the electronic leave system (unless
Action” must be entered into the electronic leave system.

Training Requirements
Sick Leave for Educational Activities
sick leave each fiscal year to attend educational activities of the employee’s children
the request shall be granted. Educational activities involve school-sponsored activities,

Training Deadlines
after completing six months of continuous employment at the OAG.
of higher learning and who already had six months of continuous state
of higher learning without having six months of continuous state employment

Qualified Trainers
• An ill state-certified foster child who resides in the employee’s household; or
recovery periods certified by her health care provider. While an employee may take

Special Requirements
specific entry in the electronic leave system for certain types of absences (e.g.,
Newly hired employees must be especially aware of when and how they can use annual
addition, a separating employee who is exhausting leave cannot accrue additional sick

Coverage Election
(e.g., jury duty, military leave). To maintain such records, the OAG uses an electronic
worked are entered into the electronic leave system at the end of each work

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Pursuant to state law and to comply with records-management guidelines, the Office of
• When any employee works on a skeleton-crew state holiday, a “Leave-Earned

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
• All leave must be entered in 15-minute increments.
“Leave-Earned Action” must be entered into the electronic leave system (unless
Action” must be entered into the electronic leave system.
• Employees who must maintain legal-billing records shall ensure that those

Employer Notification Requirements
the Attorney General (OAG) shall maintain leave information on each employee. This
information includes: a record of absences; leave accruals; leave balances; explanations
• Division management must timely notify the Human Resources Division’s

Posting Requirements
• Bonding or caring for a healthy newborn by a mother after the prescribed postdelivery recovery period.
notice to his/her supervisor(s) of the intention to use this leave. Unless the absence will
unpaid, as FMLA-qualifying, and to give notice of the designation to the

Recordkeeping Requirements
Pursuant to state law and to comply with records-management guidelines, the Office of
the Attorney General (OAG) shall maintain leave information on each employee. This
information includes: a record of absences; leave accruals; leave balances; explanations

Penalties for Non-Compliance
“Active duty or call to active duty status” is defined as military service under a call or
“As soon as practicable” is defined as at the earliest time that is both possible and
“Child” is defined as a biological, adopted or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward, or a
“Chronic serious health condition” is defined as an illness, injury, impairment, or

Sources
https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/sites/default/files/files/divisions/hr/OAG-LeavePolicy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:44:42
Original content length: 100,000 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
