Utah Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
Utah Antidiscrimination Act
This chapter shall be known as the "Utah Antidiscrimination Act."

Covered Employers
34A-5-102 Definitions -- Unincorporated entities -- Joint employers -- Franchisors.
(ii) is the essence of the employee's employer's business.
(h) "Employee" means a person applying with or employed by an employer.

Covered Employees
(c) "Bona fide occupational qualification" means a characteristic applying to an employee that:
(ii) is the essence of the employee's employer's business.
(h) "Employee" means a person applying with or employed by an employer.

What Should Employers Do?
This chapter shall be known as the "Utah Antidiscrimination Act."
(aa) "Undue hardship" means an action that requires significant difficulty or expense when
(a) For purposes of this chapter, an unincorporated entity that is required to be licensed under

Training Requirements
(b) "Apprenticeship" means a program for the training of apprentices including a program
providing the training of those persons defined as apprentices by Section 35A-6-102.
society, a religious educational institution, or a religious leader, when that individual is

Training Deadlines
(D) a person employing 15 or more employees within the state for each working day in each
(D) a person employing 15 or more employees within the state for each working day in each

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
particular job for which the person is receiving instruction:
(b) With respect to a specific claim for relief under this chapter made by a franchisee or a

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
(i) the district court in the judicial district of the state in which the asserted unfair employment
(C) a board, commission, department, institution, school district, trust, or agent of the state or

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
(a) For purposes of this chapter, an unincorporated entity that is required to be licensed under

Employer Notification Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
(ii) files charges, testifies, assists, or participates in any way in a proceeding, investigation, or

Penalties for Non-Compliance
(a) "Affiliate" means the same as that term is defined in Section 16-6a-102.
providing the training of those persons defined as apprentices by Section 35A-6-102.
(f) "Disability" means a physical or mental disability as defined and covered by the Americans
(k) "Federal executive agency" means an executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 105, of

Sources
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title34A/Chapter5/C34A-5_1800010118000101.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:47:02
Original content length: 11,953 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
