Vermont Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
RE: Request for Comment - Expungement Report pursuant to Act No. 178
Background on Act 178

Covered Employers
got married, had kids, and has now been stably employed by the same company for
neighboring company—let’s call it Opportunity Inc. The hiring manager at
Busy employers, landlords, school administrators, state licensing boards have ready

Covered Employees
a. When the governor approves a pardon application, the governor’s staff will
student or employee. See generally, David Thacher, The Rise of Criminal Background Screening in

What Should Employers Do?
requirement that the Department draft a report for the Joint Legislative Justice Oversight
Report Requirements of Act No. 178
Subsection (2) of Section 4 specifically requires the Department to “seek input from the Vermont
Office of the Attorney General and adds additional criteria that must be demonstrated by the

Training Requirements
education. A few have described their experience of living with an old criminal
children’s college education. A year ago, Mike applied for another job at a
to take that risk, she has decided not to pursue higher education and work to

Training Deadlines
(2) The twelve months after the dismissal if:
(1) not more than 45 days after:
prosecuted the case objects. Thirty days prior to expunging a record pursuant

Qualified Trainers
than he is otherwise qualified to earn. His children are unlikely to attend college

Special Requirements
Subsection (2) of Section 4 specifically requires the Department to “seek input from the Vermont
any recommendations on specific crimes to add to the definition of qualifying crimes to the Joint
your members, and specifically Director of Drug Abuse Prevention Jolinda LaClair, have

Coverage Election
electronically segregated in a manner that ensures confidentiality and that

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
-Department of State’s Attorneys and Sheriffs
DEPARTMENT OF STATE'S ATTORNEYS & SHERIFFS

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Office of the Attorney General and adds additional criteria that must be demonstrated by the
against individuals who violate the law. Equally as important, they have a responsibility to
have been honoring the latter responsibility by holding expungement clinics throughout Vermont
long, Vermont policymakers must pay attention to the harmful economic impacts

Employer Notification Requirements
consultation with the Office of the Court Administrator, the Vermont Crime Information Center,
conviction—may not remove incidents from publicly available information channels. Upon
remove previously public data (including arrest notifications and public court documents) from

Posting Requirements
POSTCONVICTION; PROCEDURE
prosecuted the case written notice of its intent to expunge the record.
with post-sentence wait periods commensurate with the public safety risk posed by

Recordkeeping Requirements
Why keep records of criminal convictions?
Why expunge records of criminal convictions?
took testimony on S.173, an act related to sealing criminal history records when there is no

Penalties for Non-Compliance
property felonies and redefine the “predicate offense” exception in 13 V.S.A.
As part of this proposal, Legal Aid would also seek to redefine the “predicate offense”
“predicate offense” should be defined more narrowly. Next, we recommend adding a
1. Expand the list of “qualifying crimes,” defined in 13 V.S.A. § 7601(4) and

Sources
https://www.healthvermont.gov/sites/default/files/documents/pdf/OCC_2018_10-1ExpungementMaterials.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:49:19
Original content length: 60,599 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
