Virginia Paid Family / Medical Leave (PFML)

Overview
Leave may be provided at the discretion of the agency for the purpose of allowing employees time to further their education. Employees may receive full or partial pay or may be placed on unpaid leave during this time. Financial assistance may
Permits employees to take military leave for active duty in the armed services of the United States and provides reemployment rights accorded by the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act (USERRA) upon their return. Eligible

Covered Employers
Up to 16 hours of paid leave per leave year is available to eligible employees to use to provide service as a volunteer member of a service organization or through authorized school assistance.  Part-time employees receive an amount of leave proportionate to the percentage of hours they work in a full 40-hour workweek.   Employees who serve with a volunteer fire department and rescue squad or auxiliary unit are eligible for up to 8 additional hours (24 hours total) of leave per leave year.

Covered Employees
[Benefits](https://www.dhrm.virginia.gov/employeebenefits)
[Health Benefits](https://www.dhrm.virginia.gov/employeebenefits/health-benefits)
[Employee Assistance Program](https://www.dhrm.virginia.gov/employeebenefits/employee-assistance)

What Should Employers Do?
Medical certification is required and donations may cover that period of time that is medically certified.

Training Requirements
**Educational Leave \[Paid or unpaid leave\]**
Leave may be provided at the discretion of the agency for the purpose of allowing employees time to further their education. Employees may receive full or partial pay or may be placed on unpaid leave during this time. Financial assistance may

Training Deadlines
Newly hired, full-time employees accrue annual leave at 4 hours per pay period (12 days
per year). After every five years of service, the accrual rate increases by 1 hour up to a maximum of 9 hours per pay period (27 days per year) for employees having 25 years or more of service. Part-time employees’ accruals are prorated
Provides qualifying employees with up to 80 hours of paid leave annually for absences from their regular job to provide specific kinds of emergency services during defined times of state and/or national disaster. Also permits agencies to grant

Qualified Trainers
Eligible employees are provided job protection for up to 12 weeks per leave year for FML – certified events. Employees may have an unpaid absence (leave without pay), charge their leave balances to be paid for the absence, or use a combination
Provides employees who are in a qualified “leave without pay” status the opportunity to request leave donations from other employees to cover the unpaid absence. Traditional Sick Leave Program participants may request leave share donations

Special Requirements
Provides qualifying employees with up to 80 hours of paid leave annually for absences from their regular job to provide specific kinds of emergency services during defined times of state and/or national disaster. Also permits agencies to grant
up to 80 hours of paid leave annually to employees who are victims of disasters that meet specific criteria defined in policy.
Up to 16 hours of paid leave per leave year is available to eligible employees to use to provide service as a volunteer member of a service organization or through authorized school assistance.  Part-time employees receive an amount of leave proportionate to the percentage of hours they work in a full 40-hour workweek.   Employees who serve with a volunteer fire department and rescue squad or auxiliary unit are eligible for up to 8 additional hours (24 hours total) of leave per leave year.

Coverage Election
SearchWhen autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Leave provided to eligible employees that may be used for: appearance in court or related proceedings; service on state councils or boards; service as an officer of election; resolution of work-related conflicts; participation in the resolution

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Leave accrued at the end of each pay period by eligible employees. Accrual is based on an employee's percentage of full-time status and his or her years of salaried state service. A maximum amount of accumulated leave may be carried over at the
Leave provided to eligible employees that may be used for: appearance in court or related proceedings; service on state councils or boards; service as an officer of election; resolution of work-related conflicts; participation in the resolution

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Medical certification is required and donations may cover that period of time that is medically certified.

Employer Notification Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Provides qualifying employees with up to 80 hours of paid leave annually for absences from their regular job to provide specific kinds of emergency services during defined times of state and/or national disaster. Also permits agencies to grant
up to 80 hours of paid leave annually to employees who are victims of disasters that meet specific criteria defined in policy.
for an immediate family member as defined by FMLA.

Sources
https://www.dhrm.virginia.gov/employeebenefits/paid-and-unpaid-leave

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:50:27
Original content length: 9,206 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
