Virginia Background Check / Ban-the-Box

Overview
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for an efficient and consistent
Each agency must take action consistent with Policy 2.05 - Equal Employment

Covered Employers
Agencies may supplement this policy to accommodate specific business needs.
duties/work title, organizational unit, and geographic area/location) that
plan, and agency business needs.

Covered Employees
Application: Full-time and part-time classified employees.
The Virginia Personnel Act, Code of Virginia § 2.2-2900 et. seq. specifies that agency
methods of personnel administration within their agencies.

What Should Employers Do?
When requested, agencies must provide reasonable accommodation throughout the
Each agency must take action consistent with Policy 2.05 - Equal Employment
heads shall be the appointing authorities of their respective agencies and shall establish
Supplemental policies must be consistent with the provisions of DHRM policy and must be

Training Requirements
Policy 4.15 - Educational Leave
 Identify any education qualifications required by law for the position; and
 any educational qualifications required by law;

Training Deadlines
methods of personnel administration within their agencies.
Policy 4.25 - Holidays
workdays, not counting Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, except in the following

Qualified Trainers
of the agency’s workforce and the availability of qualified applicants.
The choice should be based on factors such as the availability of qualified

Special Requirements
Agencies may supplement this policy to accommodate specific business needs.
 any requirement or preference for related experience (but not specific years
4. Exceptions to Announcement Requirements

Coverage Election
political affiliation, disability, or veteran status, in the recruitment, selection and hiring
Agencies should select the recruitment option that best fits their needs before

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
Policy 1.55 - Return to State Service
b. State Employees Only: Only current state employees (i.e., classified, hourly,

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
When requested, agencies must provide reasonable accommodation throughout the
Each agency must take action consistent with Policy 2.05 - Equal Employment
Supplemental policies must be consistent with the provisions of DHRM policy and must be
 Identify any education qualifications required by law for the position; and

Employer Notification Requirements
abilities (KSA) qualification requirements. All information in the job
 notification that a fingerprint-based criminal history check will be required of
 notification if applicants must provide conviction information as a final step

Posting Requirements
Before posting agencies should:
posting a vacancy. The decision should be based on factors such as the diversity
 notice to applicants that they may be required to demonstrate the skills and

Recordkeeping Requirements
Policy 6.05 - Personnel Records Disclosure
Policy 6.10 - Personnel Records Management
 Update the Employee Work Profile to reflect current duties and

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://www.dhrm.virginia.gov/docs/default-source/hrpolicy/hiring-policy-2-10-rev-7-1-19.pdf?sfvrsn=6ace7b09_2

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:51:14
Original content length: 47,368 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
