Virginia Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
commenters were notified of action(s) taken.
may consult to find best practices and guidelines or obtain increased understanding. Unless expressly

Covered Employers
Solution Business Requirements ........................................................................................6
such AI does no harm to citizens of the Commonwealth, its guests, the business of the
Commonwealth, any known business interest, or the environment.

Covered Employees
Other documents referenced or linked in this document are additional resources that agencies or workers
That Commonwealth of Virginia (COV) agencies and workers shall be able to leverage the creative and
COV agencies and workers, and never a path to overreliance and the loss of essential

What Should Employers Do?
requirements based on feedback from Gartner.
This requirements document was posted on the Virginia Information Technologies Agency’s (VITA)
Requirements and agency Exceptions
The requirements included within this document are mandatory. Agencies deviating from these

Training Requirements
complying with a requirement specified in this document. The instructions for completing and submitting
• AI research and development (R&D) activities or instructional programs at public institutions of
AI-008 Agencies shall provide training and awareness programs for employees involved in AIrelated activities, covering ethical considerations, bias mitigation, data privacy,

Training Deadlines
The requirements included within this document are mandatory. Agencies deviating from these
an exception request are contained within the Commonwealth Enterprise Architecture Policy.
AI within other systems or applications; AI developed both by the agency or by third parties on behalf of

Qualified Trainers
AI-601 COV AI Systems shall be annually certified for trustworthiness according to the following

Special Requirements
Requirements and agency Exceptions
requirements must request an exception for each desired deviation, and receive an approved enterprise
Architecture Exception via Archer, prior to developing, procuring, or deploying such technology, or not

Coverage Election
models, including model selection, training, evaluation, and hyperparameter tuning.

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
stated in this document, references or links do not incorporate or require compliance with such other
• Safe — Under defined conditions, AI systems should not lead to a state in which

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
requirements must request an exception for each desired deviation, and receive an approved enterprise
Objective 3 Ensure that the accountability and risks associated with COV decisions must remain
AI-103 COV AI Systems must provide a clear, unambiguous, and accessible description of how
AI -202 COV AI systems utilizing large datasets and or which have high user traffic must have a

Employer Notification Requirements
This requirements document was posted on the Virginia Information Technologies Agency’s (VITA)
analytics (“What don’t I know and will need to learn to predict and advise?”).
For further information on the perspectives identified in this document, please reference the VITA

Posting Requirements
This requirements document was posted on the Virginia Information Technologies Agency’s (VITA)
AI-102 Use of an AI System within any COV Web System shall be labeled as such and displayed
provided, displayed per COV Design System guidance.

Recordkeeping Requirements
1.0 8/4/2023 Initial document created.
This requirements document was posted on the Virginia Information Technologies Agency’s (VITA)
The requirements included within this document are mandatory. Agencies deviating from these

Penalties for Non-Compliance
power necessary to provide AI as a consumer service. AI is typically defined as the ability of a machine to
defined scalability plan.
characteristics defined by NIST AI 100-1:
• Safe — Under defined conditions, AI systems should not lead to a state in which

Sources
https://www.vita.virginia.gov/media/vitavirginiagov/it-governance/ea/pdf/EA-Solutions-Artificial-Intelligence-Standard.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:51:40
Original content length: 33,934 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
