Virginia Employee Benefits Mandates (like state retirement savings programs)

Overview
- [Virginia Law](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/)
# [Virginia Law](https://law.lis.virginia.gov)

Covered Employers
Subtitle I. Organization of State Government
"Eligible employer" means a nongovernmental business, industry, trade, profession, or other enterprise in the Commonwealth, whether conducted on a for-profit or nonprofit basis, that employed 25 or more eligible employees, as reported to the Virginia Employment Commission pursuant to 16VAC5-32-20, or any successor regulation, for the quarter ending December 31 and the preceding three quarters of the preceding calendar year and has been operating for at least two years prior to Program implementation. "Eligible employer" does not include an employer that sponsors, maintains, or contributes to an automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA or a qualified retirement plan in compliance with federal law for its employees, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. An employer shall become an eligible employer at any time if it meets the eligibility requirements under this chapter.
"Participating employer" means an employer that facilitates a payroll deposit retirement savings agreement pursuant to this chapter for its eligible employees.

Covered Employees
"Eligible employee" means any individual who is (i) 18 years of age or older, (ii) currently employed at least 30 hours a week, and (iii) receiving wages.
"Eligible employer" means a nongovernmental business, industry, trade, profession, or other enterprise in the Commonwealth, whether conducted on a for-profit or nonprofit basis, that employed 25 or more eligible employees, as reported to the Virginia Employment Commission pursuant to 16VAC5-32-20, or any successor regulation, for the quarter ending December 31 and the preceding three quarters of the preceding calendar year and has been operating for at least two years prior to Program implementation. "Eligible employer" does not include an employer that sponsors, maintains, or contributes to an automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA or a qualified retirement plan in compliance with federal law for its employees, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. An employer shall become an eligible employer at any time if it meets the eligibility requirements under this chapter.
"Participating employee" means any eligible employee who is enrolled in the Program.

What Should Employers Do?
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:
"Eligible employer" means a nongovernmental business, industry, trade, profession, or other enterprise in the Commonwealth, whether conducted on a for-profit or nonprofit basis, that employed 25 or more eligible employees, as reported to the Virginia Employment Commission pursuant to 16VAC5-32-20, or any successor regulation, for the quarter ending December 31 and the preceding three quarters of the preceding calendar year and has been operating for at least two years prior to Program implementation. "Eligible employer" does not include an employer that sponsors, maintains, or contributes to an automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA or a qualified retirement plan in compliance with federal law for its employees, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. An employer shall become an eligible employer at any time if it meets the eligibility requirements under this chapter.
To promote greater voluntary retirement savings for private-sector workers in a convenient and portable manner, the Plan is authorized, in accordance with this chapter, to establish a state-facilitated IRA savings program for private-sector workers. The Program shall be sponsored and administered by the Plan. In addition to the provisions of this chapter, the Program shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 7 (§ [23.1-700](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-700/) et seq.) of Title 23.1.
A. In order to assist the Board in fulfilling its duties under § [23.1-704](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-704/) and this chapter and to assist the Plan's chief executive officer in directing, managing, and administering the Program, the Board shall appoint the Program Advisory Committee to provide sophisticated, objective, and prudent administrative and investment advice and direction, as requested by the Board. The Committee may develop Program recommendations for the Board and perform such other duties as the Board may delegate to the Committee.

Training Requirements
j. Education and outreach campaigns to eligible employers and eligible employees; and
10\. Accept any funds appropriated to the Program and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf, including any funds made available for use in facilitating education and outreach initiatives for the Program; and

Training Deadlines
i. Procedures for noncompliance with this chapter, including development of enforcement mechanisms and penalties not to exceed $200 per eligible employee annually;
11\. Design and operate the Program in a manner that will cause it not to be an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
C. The Board shall develop a Program rollout timeline, including deadlines for the enrollment of eligible employers. The Board may alter the rollout timeline in its discretion, though in all instances any alterations of established rollout dates shall include reasonable notice to affected eligible employers.

Qualified Trainers
"Eligible employer" means a nongovernmental business, industry, trade, profession, or other enterprise in the Commonwealth, whether conducted on a for-profit or nonprofit basis, that employed 25 or more eligible employees, as reported to the Virginia Employment Commission pursuant to 16VAC5-32-20, or any successor regulation, for the quarter ending December 31 and the preceding three quarters of the preceding calendar year and has been operating for at least two years prior to Program implementation. "Eligible employer" does not include an employer that sponsors, maintains, or contributes to an automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA or a qualified retirement plan in compliance with federal law for its employees, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. An employer shall become an eligible employer at any time if it meets the eligibility requirements under this chapter.
K. Participating employers shall retain the option at all times to set up any type of employer retirement plan, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p), of the Internal Revenue Code, in which event such employer shall no longer be considered an eligible employer and shall cease facilitating contributions to the Program in accordance with such procedures as shall be established by the Board.

Special Requirements
Nothing in this chapter or any payroll deposit retirement savings agreement entered into pursuant to this chapter shall be construed as a promise or guarantee that the expenses associated with a participating employee's or participating individual's retirement will be covered in full by contributions to or earnings on any account, nor that the contributions to or earnings on any account will be sufficient to fund any particular level of benefit upon retirement. In no event shall the Commonwealth, the Program, the Board, any Board member, or any participating employer be liable for any losses incurred by Program Trust investments or otherwise by any employee or other person as a result of participating in the Program.
B. No Commonwealth board, commission, political subdivision, or agency, or any officer, employee, or member thereof, is liable for any loss or deficiency resulting from particular investments selected under this chapter, except for any liability that arises out of a breach of fiduciary duty.
Insofar as the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the provisions of any other general, special, or local law, the provisions of this chapter shall control. This chapter constitutes full and complete authority, without regard to the provisions of any other law, for performing the acts authorized in this chapter and shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this chapter.

Coverage Election
To promote greater voluntary retirement savings for private-sector workers in a convenient and portable manner, the Plan is authorized, in accordance with this chapter, to establish a state-facilitated IRA savings program for private-sector workers. The Program shall be sponsored and administered by the Plan. In addition to the provisions of this chapter, the Program shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 7 (§ [23.1-700](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-700/) et seq.) of Title 23.1.
c. Selecting whether to offer Roth IRAs, traditional IRAs, or both, and if both, which type of IRA shall be the default IRA;

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
- [State Budget](https://budget.lis.virginia.gov/default/2025/1)
Subtitle I. Organization of State Government

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
2\. Invest moneys in the Program in any instruments, obligations, securities, or property deemed appropriate by the Board;
No act or undertaking of the Board is a debt or pledge of the full faith and credit of the Commonwealth or any political subdivision of the Commonwealth, and all such acts and undertakings are payable solely from the Program. The Commonwealth shall have no obligation for payment of benefits arising from this chapter.
C. The Board shall develop a Program rollout timeline, including deadlines for the enrollment of eligible employers. The Board may alter the rollout timeline in its discretion, though in all instances any alterations of established rollout dates shall include reasonable notice to affected eligible employers.
H. Participating employers shall not be a fiduciary, or considered to be a fiduciary, over the Program. The Program is a state-administered program, not an employer-sponsored program. If the Program is subsequently found to be preempted by any federal law or regulation, participating employers shall not be liable as Program sponsors. A participating employer shall not bear responsibility for the administration, investment, or investment performance of the Program. A participating employer shall not be liable with regard to investment returns, Program design, and benefits paid to Program participants.

Employer Notification Requirements
- [Session Information](https://lis.virginia.gov)
9\. Establish procedures for receiving and providing data relevant to Program administration. This shall include information collected from other state agencies, including the Department of Labor and Industry, the Department of Taxation, and the Virginia Employment Commission, as appropriate;
C. The Board shall develop a Program rollout timeline, including deadlines for the enrollment of eligible employers. The Board may alter the rollout timeline in its discretion, though in all instances any alterations of established rollout dates shall include reasonable notice to affected eligible employers.

Posting Requirements
C. The Board shall develop a Program rollout timeline, including deadlines for the enrollment of eligible employers. The Board may alter the rollout timeline in its discretion, though in all instances any alterations of established rollout dates shall include reasonable notice to affected eligible employers.

Recordkeeping Requirements
"Eligible employer" means a nongovernmental business, industry, trade, profession, or other enterprise in the Commonwealth, whether conducted on a for-profit or nonprofit basis, that employed 25 or more eligible employees, as reported to the Virginia Employment Commission pursuant to 16VAC5-32-20, or any successor regulation, for the quarter ending December 31 and the preceding three quarters of the preceding calendar year and has been operating for at least two years prior to Program implementation. "Eligible employer" does not include an employer that sponsors, maintains, or contributes to an automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA or a qualified retirement plan in compliance with federal law for its employees, including plans qualified under § 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. An employer shall become an eligible employer at any time if it meets the eligibility requirements under this chapter.
"Participating individual" means any individual who enrolls in the Program independent of an employment relationship with an eligible employer, maintains an account in the Program, and is not a participating employee.
B. The assets of IRAs established for Program participants shall be allocated to the Fund and combined for investment purposes. Fund assets shall be managed and administered for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to Program participants and defraying reasonable expenses of administering, maintaining, and managing investments of the IRAs and the Program Trust. No property rights in Fund assets shall exist in favor of the Commonwealth or any participating employer.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
"Wages" means any compensation, as such term is defined in § 219(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, that is paid to an eligible employee by his employer during the calendar year.
3\. No eligible employee or self-employed individual shall be permitted to participate in the Program unless such individual has Virginia taxable income, as defined in Article 2 (§ [58.1-320](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-320/) et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 58.1.

Sources
https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacodefull/title2.2/chapter27.1/

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:52:03
Original content length: 21,382 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
