Washington Prevailing Wage Laws (public contracts)

Overview
This document contains sections of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW, laws) and
on the front cover. Changes to laws and/or rules may occur in legislative sessions or

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
works contracts, workers, and other interested parties.
which protects workers from substandard wages and preserves local wage
sections for contractors, awarding agencies, and workers and other interested

What Should Employers Do?
not rely on the plain language description as a substitute for requirements
We ask that you comply with these requirements. There may also be additional

Training Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Training Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
We ask that you comply with these requirements. There may also be additional

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
The Washington State Department of Labor & Industries enforces the law,
parties. The other sections provide the text of the state law and rules.

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Employer Notification Requirements
Contact information is available at the back of this booklet.
Washington Administrative Code where you can get more information. Do
contact us for assistance — that information is available at the back of

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
This document contains sections of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW, laws) and
paper copy of this document where WAC and RCW links are not currently accessible.
changes since publication of this document. If you have questions, please

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Not specified in available documentation

Sources
https://lni.wa.gov/forms-publications/f700-032-000.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:53:23
Original content length: 2,374 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
