Washington Workplace Safety Requirements (OSHA or state-level)

Overview
under the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act of 1973 (Chapter 49.17 RCW).
DOSH CONTACT INFORMATION:

Covered Employers
representative, or by an organization that is specifically named in a rule, such as Underwriters’
Authorized person. A person approved or assigned by the employer to perform a specific type
Employer. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, business trust, legal representative, or

Covered Employees
protection for the worker as he encounters newly-developed materials and methods.
The rules in this chapter are designed to protect the health of employees and help to create a
surroundings or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to employees,

What Should Employers Do?
modern occupational medicine must also be considered. Occupational medicine with
(d) This chapter is promulgated in accordance with the applicable requirements as
healthy workplace by establishing requirements to control health hazards. Requirements for
Unless the context indicates otherwise, words used in this chapter shall have the meaning given

Training Requirements
or who by extensive knowledge, training, and experience, has successfully demonstrated ability
WAC 296-62-07310 Signs, information and training. ..................................................... 8
WAC 296-62-07310 Signs, information and training.

Training Deadlines
The rules in this book are effective January, 2024. A brief promulgation history, set within
(e) Effective date. This standard shall become effective thirty days after filing with the
involving a listed carcinogen within the hood does not require the insertion of any portion of any

Qualified Trainers
Qualified. One who, by possession of a recognized degree, certificate, or professional standing,
carcinogens must be provided with and required to wear and use a NIOSHcertified self-contained breathing apparatus that has a full facepiece and is

Special Requirements
• Industry and Task-specific Rules
Part G Carcinogens (Specific) WAC 296-62-07329 through 296-62-07477
and management and to call particular attention to the way in which modernization

Coverage Election
NEMA. National Electrical Manufacturing Association.
(c) Respirator selection. The employer must:

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
promulgated for the health of all the workmen coming under the jurisdiction of the
outlined in the Washington State Administrative Procedure Act (chapter 34.04 RCW)

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
modern occupational medicine must also be considered. Occupational medicine with
Shall or must. Mandatory.
must not be affected thereby.
WAC 296-62-055 Retain labeling required by the department

Employer Notification Requirements
DOSH CONTACT INFORMATION:
DOSH Standards and Information
Information telephone number is 1-800-423-7233

Posting Requirements
(a) The employer must post signs at entrances to regulated areas. The signs must bear
(b) The employer must post signs at entrances to regulated areas containing operations
(c) Appropriate signs and instructions must be posted at the entrance to, and exit from,

Recordkeeping Requirements
and developments cause changes in every facet of the industrial process. In keeping
chemical hazard communication programs, workplace lighting levels and exposure records are in
(2) Preservation of records.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Note: Terms used in this rule are defined by the USDOT in Title 49 of the
(c) Open vessel system operations. Open vessel system operations as defined in WAC
confined to laboratory-type hoods or glove boxes.
washing down with a hose, unless a fine spray has first been laid down.

Sources
https://lni.wa.gov/safety-health/safety-rules/chapter-pdfs/WAC296-62.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:53:52
Original content length: 500,000 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
