West Virginia Bereavement Leave

Overview
following West Virginia wage and hour laws, rules and regulations.
Fair Labor Standards Act

Covered Employers
Not specified in available documentation

Covered Employees
attendance for all Division of Administrative Services (DAS) employees
West Virginia Division of Personnel Administrative Rule and the Federal
All DAS employees and all situations when the employee is on duty. This

What Should Employers Do?
The employee must meet the requirements to be overtime exempt in
Scheduled Shifts: Employees are required to work a shift between the hours of 7 a.m. - 5
2.2 Require compliance with reasonable standards of performance by all employees to limit the
with employees that all overtime must be approved in advance.

Training Requirements
Any previously written or verbal DAS or DHS instruction on this subject.

Training Deadlines
Not specified in available documentation

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Coverage Election
Not specified in available documentation

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
AGENCY POLICY STATEMENT
Policy Statement is available for general distribution and is not exempt

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
The employee must meet the requirements to be overtime exempt in
Scheduled Shifts: Employees are required to work a shift between the hours of 7 a.m. - 5
with employees that all overtime must be approved in advance.
overtime or for not working required overtime.

Employer Notification Requirements
from Freedom of Information Act requests.
are expected to familiarize themselves with this information if granting permission to employees

Posting Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Recordkeeping Requirements
Not specified in available documentation

Penalties for Non-Compliance
Unauthorized Leave: Defined as hours absent from work without approved annual or sick leave.

Sources
https://das.wv.gov/resources/Documents/230.00%20Time%2C%20Leave%20and%20Attendance%20Policy.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:54:52
Original content length: 3,836 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
