Wyoming Pregnancy / Disability / ADA Accommodations

Overview
Implementation of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
ACTION: Final rule and interpretive guidance.

Covered Employers
business of the covered entity.
undue hardship on the operation of the business of the covered entity. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C.
The PWFA defines “covered entity” using the definition of “employer” from different

Covered Employees
Implementation of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
interpretive guidance to implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, which requires a covered
entity to provide reasonable accommodations to a qualified employee’s or applicant’s known

What Should Employers Do?
interpretive guidance to implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, which requires a covered
The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (PWFA)1 requires a covered entity to provide
not be more complexity and that describing a restriction may require different or more facts than
11 To the extent that an accommodation in an example is required under another law, like the OSH Act, the example

Training Requirements
related medical conditions the proper course of care can include regular appointments and monitoring by a health
number of commenters . . . ; indeed, the Commission may adopt a course endorsed by no commenter. The
(Bobby) Scott, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce (Oct. 10, 2023). By

Training Deadlines
DATES: This final rule and interpretive guidance is effective on [INSERT DATE 60 DAYS
within it, and the Commission will be guided by the regulation and the Interpretive Guidance
defined as one occurring 6 or fewer months earlier) could be “related medical conditions.”

Qualified Trainers
entity to provide reasonable accommodations to a qualified employee’s or applicant’s known
reasonable accommodations to a qualified employee’s or applicant’s known limitations related

Special Requirements
Interpretive Guidance generally refer to these restrictions as “lifting restrictions” with a specific pound limit. In
in specific examples could implicate other Federal laws, including, but not limited to, the Family
4459, 6093 (2022).11 Additionally, although some examples state that the described actions

Coverage Election
practical actions for covered entities and employees, and to encourage voluntary compliance
Congress chooses to “use[] the same language in two statutes having similar purposes, . . . it is

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
4459, 6093 (2022).11 Additionally, although some examples state that the described actions
stated in the proposed rule, the Commission recognizes that different types of employers use different terms for time

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
11 To the extent that an accommodation in an example is required under another law, like the OSH Act, the example
that the requirements for protection under the FMLA (in terms of how long an employee must
required employers to provide reasonable accommodations to an employee when an employee’s
rule’s definition of “limitation” that the limitation must be of the specific employee in question.

Employer Notification Requirements
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sharyn Tejani, Associate Legal Counsel,
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
The Commission issued its notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) on August 11, 2023,

Posting Requirements
The Commission issued its notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) on August 11, 2023,
improperly exclude many employees, such as employees with postpartum limitations, who may
32 See, e.g., Am. Coll. of Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion No. 736, Optimizing Postpartum Care

Recordkeeping Requirements
This document is scheduled to be published in the
reading and to keep the focus of the examples on the PWFA’s legal interpretation. The
conditions had a need or a problem related to maintaining their health or the health of the

Penalties for Non-Compliance
The PWFA defines “covered entity” using the definition of “employer” from different
‘respondent’” under 42 U.S.C. 2000e(n) and includes employers as defined in 42 U.S.C. 2000e(b), 2000e–16c(a),
dictionary definition of “related to,” which is generally defined as “connected with” or “about”
violation of Title VII” and “require employers to treat disabilities caused or contributed to by pregnancy,

Sources
https://public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2024-07527.pdf

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:58:17
Original content length: 985,061 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
