Wyoming Biometric Privacy / AI Use Laws (emerging)

Overview
AN ACT relating to the administration of government; requiring government entities to adopt policies for the collection, access, security and use of personal data as specified; requiring specific personal data policies; providing definitions; and providing for effective dates.
Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming:

Covered Employers
The Wyoming Retirement System (WRS) states that it transfers personal data to several vendors to conduct actuarial analysis of the WRS Retirement Fund (Fund), to pay benefits, to report taxes (1099R issuance), to audit for unreported deaths and to locate missing participants (address updates). All these duties are required, either by Wyoming statute or federal law & regulation, typically from the Dept. of Treasury (IRS) or Dept. of Labor (DOL). How this is done is typically not specified. It could be done internally or by employing a vendor (implying data transfer or purchase (i.e. dates of death). Federal requirements revolve around compliance of the plan in accordance with section 401a of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and guidance from DOL regarding procedures to safeguard funds withheld from employee pay or paid by the employer as part of compensation. These include requirements to maintain contact with members (address updates) and to pay benefits properly (death audits, end or transfer benefits upon death, etc). Our fiduciary duties include these requirements. The tax-advantage status of the WRS Retirement Fund depends on compliance. If the IRS or DOL were to determine in an audit that WRS was not making sufficient efforts in these areas per their “best practices guidance” (which includes utilizing vendors to locate participants) then WRS could be found in violation of our fiduciary duties and lose the tax qualification status of the WRS Retirement Fund.

Covered Employees
Fiscal note Estimate of the fiscal and personnel impact to the state for the bill.
The Wyoming Retirement System (WRS) states that it transfers personal data to several vendors to conduct actuarial analysis of the WRS Retirement Fund (Fund), to pay benefits, to report taxes (1099R issuance), to audit for unreported deaths and to locate missing participants (address updates). All these duties are required, either by Wyoming statute or federal law & regulation, typically from the Dept. of Treasury (IRS) or Dept. of Labor (DOL). How this is done is typically not specified. It could be done internally or by employing a vendor (implying data transfer or purchase (i.e. dates of death). Federal requirements revolve around compliance of the plan in accordance with section 401a of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and guidance from DOL regarding procedures to safeguard funds withheld from employee pay or paid by the employer as part of compensation. These include requirements to maintain contact with members (address updates) and to pay benefits properly (death audits, end or transfer benefits upon death, etc). Our fiduciary duties include these requirements. The tax-advantage status of the WRS Retirement Fund depends on compliance. If the IRS or DOL were to determine in an audit that WRS was not making sufficient efforts in these areas per their “best practices guidance” (which includes utilizing vendors to locate participants) then WRS could be found in violation of our fiduciary duties and lose the tax qualification status of the WRS Retirement Fund.
According to the Dept. of Workforce Services (DWS), the duties proposed in W.S. 9-21-202(c) requiring an investigation has the potential to require additional personnel and expenditures, which are indeterminable at this time.

What Should Employers Do?
(ii)"Government entity" means the state and all its political subdivisions, agencies, instrumentalities and institutions and any local government entity."Government entity" shall not include the judicial branch of government or any law enforcement agency in Wyoming;
(iv)"Law enforcement agency" means a county, municipal, college or university police force, Wyoming highway patrol, the division of criminal investigation, the department of corrections or any state or local agency or political subdivision or part of an agency or political subdivision to the extent that the primary purpose of the agency or political subdivision, or part thereof, is the prevention or investigation of crime and the enforcement of penal, traffic, regulatory or criminal laws. "Law enforcement agency" shall not include the office of any city, county or district attorney or other division of the attorney general;
(a)No government entity shall purchase, sell, trade or transfer personal data without the express written consent of the natural person except as otherwise expressly provided by law and except that a government entity may transfer personal data to another government entity provided that the other government entity complies with this article.
(c)A Wyoming resident who objects to the accuracy, completeness, pertinence, timeliness, relevance, retention, dissemination or denial of access to the resident's own personal data that is maintained by a government entity may, individually or through a duly authorized representative, file an objection with the government entity that maintains the data. The government entity maintaining the personal data shall, within thirty (30) days of the receipt of an objection:

Training Requirements
According to the Wyoming Community College Commission (Commission), this bill would place added requirements on the Commission, and by extension, the community colleges and other partners for which the Commission is responsible to administer data systems, such as the State Longitudinal Education Data System (SLEDS), the College Administrative Computing system (CACS) and other data systems. The fiscal impact of these added requirements is indeterminable at this time.
The Dept. of Education indicates concerns regarding the feasibility of implementing the requirements outlined in the bill. The associated administrative and financial impact is indeterminable without additional information.
Trent Carroll, Department of Education, 777-7720;

Training Deadlines
(c)A Wyoming resident who objects to the accuracy, completeness, pertinence, timeliness, relevance, retention, dissemination or denial of access to the resident's own personal data that is maintained by a government entity may, individually or through a duly authorized representative, file an objection with the government entity that maintains the data. The government entity maintaining the personal data shall, within thirty (30) days of the receipt of an objection:

Qualified Trainers
Not specified in available documentation

Special Requirements
AN ACT relating to the administration of government; requiring government entities to adopt policies for the collection, access, security and use of personal data as specified; requiring specific personal data policies; providing definitions; and providing for effective dates.
(iii)"Identified or identifiable natural person" means a natural person who can be readily identified, directly or indirectly, by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, specific geolocation data or an online identifier;
(b)No government entity shall collect or maintain more personal data than is reasonably necessary for the performance of the government entity's lawful functions. All personal data collected and maintained by government entities shall be necessary for a specific pre‑defined purpose.

Coverage Election
Sponsored by: Select Committee on Blockchain, Financial Technology and Digital Innovation Technology
Sponsored By:Select Committee on Blockchain, Financial Technology and Digital Innovation Technology

Reciprocity/Extraterritorial Coverage
| 2024 | STATE OF WYOMING | 24LSO-0107 Numbered 2.0 |
Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming:

Employer Responsibilities & Deadlines
(a)In addition to the policies required under W.S. 9-21-101, if applicable, each government entity that collects or retains personal data shall adopt, enforce and maintain a policy regarding the collection, access, retention, security and use of personal data consistent with all applicable federal and state laws, including this article.
According to the Dept. of Health (DOH), this bill would result in an incalculable but potentially significant revenue decrease because of the impossibility of securing express written authorization from every DOH client for every data purchase or transfer from vendors or with the federal government, as would be required in the bill in the proposed W.S. 9-21-202(a). These revenue decreases could reach up to a $350 million per year in Federal Medicaid Funds (Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP)), up to $6 million per year in Medicaid Estate Recovery Funds and up to $27 million per year in third party liability cost avoidance funds. These three major areas are not an exhaustive list. Although the bill provides an exception for transfers to occur without written consent as otherwise provided by law, federal law such as the HIPAA Privacy Rule does not preempt or override more stringent state privacy laws. Instead, HIPAA expressly provides that more stringent state law controls and limits the uses and disclosures that the HIPAA Privacy Rule would otherwise permit. The DOH would need to secure written consent for all transfers under the bill and could no longer rely on broad permissions under the HIPAA Privacy Rule, such as disclosures for treatment, payment, healthcare operations, public health activities, and under other scenarios generally not requiring individuals to execute an authorization to permit the use or disclosure of their protected health information. While an express permission for data sharing might be added to the Medicaid application (at cost), some eligibility groups, such as Supplemental Security Income and Foster Care Children also have automatic eligibility and thus would not be presented with such a form. Wyoming Medicaid could ultimately fail to comply with significant data sharing requirements (e.g., the required submission of all claims and eligibility data to the federal government). The loss of the ability to match clients with private insurers or conduct asset verification through data purchases would negatively impact some, if not all, of the revenue received from the Supplemental Security Income and Foster Care Children programs. In addition to the direct loss of third-party revenue (e.g., other insurers, estates of deceased Medicaid members), the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) could withhold any amount of the Medicaid federal matching funds for failure to comply with required recovery and cost avoidance provisions, as well as the submission of claims and eligibility data for compliance purposes.
The Wyoming Retirement System (WRS) states that it transfers personal data to several vendors to conduct actuarial analysis of the WRS Retirement Fund (Fund), to pay benefits, to report taxes (1099R issuance), to audit for unreported deaths and to locate missing participants (address updates). All these duties are required, either by Wyoming statute or federal law & regulation, typically from the Dept. of Treasury (IRS) or Dept. of Labor (DOL). How this is done is typically not specified. It could be done internally or by employing a vendor (implying data transfer or purchase (i.e. dates of death). Federal requirements revolve around compliance of the plan in accordance with section 401a of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and guidance from DOL regarding procedures to safeguard funds withheld from employee pay or paid by the employer as part of compensation. These include requirements to maintain contact with members (address updates) and to pay benefits properly (death audits, end or transfer benefits upon death, etc). Our fiduciary duties include these requirements. The tax-advantage status of the WRS Retirement Fund depends on compliance. If the IRS or DOL were to determine in an audit that WRS was not making sufficient efforts in these areas per their “best practices guidance” (which includes utilizing vendors to locate participants) then WRS could be found in violation of our fiduciary duties and lose the tax qualification status of the WRS Retirement Fund.
The Wyoming Game and Fish Department anticipates a total expenditure increase of $2,305 due to the staff time required to develop policies and practices to be in compliance with the bill. Policy development and a request to retain personal data beyond three years for hunting and fishing licensing history, law enforcement purposes and hunting preference point data is expected to take approximately 38 hours of administrative time at an hourly rate of $60.66.

Employer Notification Requirements
(i)"Deidentified data" means data that cannot reasonably be used to infer information about, or otherwise be linked to, an identified or identifiable natural person or personal digital identity, or a device linked to a natural person or personal digital identity, if the government entity that possesses the data takes reasonable measures to ensure the data cannot be associated with a natural person or personal digital identity;
(v)"Personal data" means information that is linked or reasonably linkable to an identified or identifiable natural person or personal digital identity and does not include deidentified data or publicly available information. As used in this paragraph, "publicly available information" means information that is lawfully made available from federal, state or local government records;
(iv)Notify the resident in writing of any decision regarding the resident's objection.

Posting Requirements
The current version of the bill text is displayed below. To view all versions of the bill with page and line numbers, use the PDF documents located to the right, under "Bill Versions & Resources."
| NOTICE-AGENCY ESTIMATE OF ADMINISTRATIVE IMPACT REQUESTED This bill has administrative impact that appears to increase duties or responsibilities of one or more state agencies and may impact agency spending or staffing requirements. As introduced, the bill does not modify any state agency budget or current personnel authorizations. The following state agencies will be asked to provide their estimate of the administrative fiscal impact prior to the first committee meeting held to consider the bill: Retirement System Department of Health University of Wyoming Department of Parks and Cultural Resources |

Recordkeeping Requirements
The current version of the bill text is displayed below. To view all versions of the bill with page and line numbers, use the PDF documents located to the right, under "Bill Versions & Resources."
(v)"Personal data" means information that is linked or reasonably linkable to an identified or identifiable natural person or personal digital identity and does not include deidentified data or publicly available information. As used in this paragraph, "publicly available information" means information that is lawfully made available from federal, state or local government records;
(b)Any Wyoming resident may request a copy of their personal data from any government entity maintaining it.The government entity may charge a fee for production of the requested personal data consistent with fees authorized to be charged under the Public Records Act.

Penalties for Non-Compliance
(vi)"Personal digital identity" means as defined in W.S. 8‑1‑102(a)(xviii).
(b)No government entity shall collect or maintain more personal data than is reasonably necessary for the performance of the government entity's lawful functions. All personal data collected and maintained by government entities shall be necessary for a specific pre‑defined purpose.
The Wyoming Retirement System (WRS) states that it transfers personal data to several vendors to conduct actuarial analysis of the WRS Retirement Fund (Fund), to pay benefits, to report taxes (1099R issuance), to audit for unreported deaths and to locate missing participants (address updates). All these duties are required, either by Wyoming statute or federal law & regulation, typically from the Dept. of Treasury (IRS) or Dept. of Labor (DOL). How this is done is typically not specified. It could be done internally or by employing a vendor (implying data transfer or purchase (i.e. dates of death). Federal requirements revolve around compliance of the plan in accordance with section 401a of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and guidance from DOL regarding procedures to safeguard funds withheld from employee pay or paid by the employer as part of compensation. These include requirements to maintain contact with members (address updates) and to pay benefits properly (death audits, end or transfer benefits upon death, etc). Our fiduciary duties include these requirements. The tax-advantage status of the WRS Retirement Fund depends on compliance. If the IRS or DOL were to determine in an audit that WRS was not making sufficient efforts in these areas per their “best practices guidance” (which includes utilizing vendors to locate participants) then WRS could be found in violation of our fiduciary duties and lose the tax qualification status of the WRS Retirement Fund.

Sources
https://www.wyoleg.gov/Legislation/2024/HB0163

---
Generated on: 2025-07-31 18:59:07
Original content length: 18,835 characters
Processing method: Unified template structure
